---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/0vijus_c-ay"

date: 2023-09-14
title: The Campy Queer Sensibilities of Barbie
runtime: 48:57
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - The Campy Depth of Barbie
  - "Deep Pink (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20230914+0Vijus_c-aY+The+Campy+Queer+Sensibilities+of+Barbie.webm"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_3rnwKzRD4" # Reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - feb26-unprivate
  - w-nick-james

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

[sponsor plug]

How Barbie is a masterpiece of modern camp, and why queer people connected with it so much.

00:00 Introduction  
08:53 Sponsor  
09:56 Part 1  
15:42 Part 2  
21:56 Part 3  
30:52 Part 4  
38:20 Part 5  

#Barbie #videoessay

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

this video is brought to you by Manta sleep hi this video has nothing to do with
Forrest Gump Forrest Gump is a 1994 inspirational drama starring Tom Hanks and
is one of his most famous roles that is until he became famous for just being
Tom Hanks and zoomer's unwittingly made the correct decision to maybe skip this
movie and it's safe to say that Forrest Gump is not remembered fondly because I
can hardly say that it's Remembered at all Forrest Gump is a simple movie
incredibly straightforward it's the story of a man's life in America his story
strings together a number of significant events in American history that he
somehow managed to be a part of there are no iconic shots that particularly
stand out other than him sitting on a bench and running despite this it won a
whopping eight Academy Awards at the 67th Oscars out of 13 nominations the
record for most nominations is shared between three films at 14 by the way
though it could have had the 14 nominations if it had pushed Robin Wright for
best actress though honestly that your best actress was a tough category though
really best actresses usually a more interesting category than best actor in my
humble opinion oh look at me I'm a man with some feelings who's done something
horrible notably Forrest Gump basically took a lot of awards that should have
gone to movies that even at the time critics knew would stand the test of time
better according to every film studies program or movie critic either the
Shawshank Redemption or Pulp Fiction deserved those accolades Pulp Fiction
specifically holds a little bit more attention in the modern media landscape
fitting perhaps uncomfortably into a category of work such as Scarface Fight
Club and The Godfather for which a group of CIS men based their ideas of the
modern masculine all the while being blissfully ignorant to the fact that each
one of these examples serves to undermine and subvert traditional patriarchal
values as they manifest in society's different projections of men also movies
about organized crime of one sort of another anyway Pulp Fiction's most obvious
claim to fame isn't really for the reflection of intellectual self-criticism
that it has instead the film is remembered for its Vibes that is to say in an
era of film which was become coming more and more obsessed with technique and
formatting Pulp Fiction sought to recreate a 70s Nostalgia for serialized
programming and what we refer to as B cinema including but not limited to black
exploitation films for which Tarantino holds great reverence the goal of this
aesthetic in Tarantino's larger body of work is to present lurid themes in
provocative ways it's safe to say that each one of Tarantino's films can be
described as a Pastiche of different kinds of exploitation films if not
explicitly being exploitation films themselves Pulp Fiction in particular
exemplifies these sensibilities as this story is a collection of vignettes about
various characters narrated out of chronology hearkening to the early days of
VHS home rentals where you might watch a movie series out of sequence depending
upon which tape was in stock on any particular Friday night for instance I
watched the original 9 Friday the 13th movies in the order of nine seven eight
one two six four three five now Tarantino has said and done some questionable
things in his career I'm not making any excuses for that however that can't
diminish what he's brought to the table as a filmmaker a screenwriter who taught
himself to direct because he didn't have the budget for a director is now
regarded as one of American Cinema's greats though from one film geek to another
the man is so single-mindedly obsessed with movies that it's hard not to admire
his earnesty from everything Tarantino has said about his Inspirations he has no
objective to make a parody of or correct any sensibilities of one of the
b-movies that he loves so much Tarantino genuinely has a fondness for this style
of film and through his work presents his audience with reasons to share in that
fondness the objective is not to replace B cinema but to make contributions to
it the more you watch Tarantino's Inspirations you realize that there are very
few visual elements that are strictly original much of his work that is
considered iconic is borrowed directly from directors that he would not hesitate
to describe as masters of The Craft but most film nerds probably have never even
heard of he's just very good at chopping it all up into the right size pieces
and throwing it into a blender and in the process he Champions many of the
sensibilities themes and Aesthetics of low rent 70s films the critics of the day
decried as trash Tarantino's artistic message is that they were never trash
people just weren't watching them the right way probably more so even than the
Shawshank Redemption which received none of the 70 Academy Awards that it was
nominated for Pulp Fiction's losses to Forest Gump are considered some of the
great Oscar snubs in history though it's clear to see why Forrest Gump's primary
objective was to lull its audience into nostalgic ego death by trailing a plot
of feel-good emotional beats through an unlikely interconnected through line of
America the content of the movie is problematic to say the least starting with
but not limited to an able-bodied creative team generating an empowerment myth
around a character with Developmental and physical disabilities justifying and
anyone Can Make It in America mentality which Glides dangerously into
encouraging casual ableism we see any number of instances of how it should be
possible for the physically disabled to just get over their disabilities and
become a football star for someone to go through the Vietnam War without any
lingering trauma and scolding those with it and the less said about the book
it's based on the better you think Tarantino is problematic the presentation of
nostalgia in this movie was so toxic at Borders on American cultural propaganda
it's this weird unification of political sensibilities conservative viewpoints
appreciate seeing the underdog do the bootstraps thing especially without
complaining about how hard it is to be disabled in America liberals like it
because it showcases America as a land of freedom and opportunity where all the
heavy lifting has already been done so they can say not in my backyard without
feeling racist ableist or classist and for everyone watching it who was born in
the 70s or earlier they get the Rick Dalton moment of spotting this fictional
person going through that thing they lived through and that's why it got Oscars
AIDS is tragic when a straight white woman gets it drug use is sympathetic only
when it's to cope with childhood trauma and nobody needs therapy for anything
exploring the realities of these situations and a seeming refusal to acknowledge
how much luck Forest has for being in the right place at the right time with an
amount of emotional fortitude that is unrealistic to expect of anyone is
something the film does not do fun fact I had no idea I hated Forrest Gump this
much before beginning to write this script however Pulp Fiction and by extension
Tarantino's body of work also relies heavily on Nostalgia though it's a
different kind of nostalgia whereas Forrest Gump is specifically Guided by an
invisible hand through a series of various events in American history thereby
tricking you into believing that this story is quintessentially American
Tarantino's work confronts the audience with various cinematic Style from the
past even though Jackie Brown takes place in the 1990s when the movie was made
the sensibilities remind you of a movie that happened in the 1970s and even
though Django Unchained takes place in the 1800s the sensibilities remind you of
a western from the 1960s Kill Bill vol 1 has sensibilities like a 70s Hong Kong
action movie while Volume 2 smashes together the sensibilities of Kurosawa and
Leone the nostalgic elements are in the meta narrative the events in these
movies are not familiar however the techniques framing devices themes narrative
Styles acting choices Aesthetics and visual references what we refer to as the
sensibilities of artistic media are reminiscent of older Styles oftentimes the
kind of media we had grown up with and while this style of B-movie never really
received a claim while they were being made back in the day creators who have
the ability and ambition to recreate these styles are celebrated again Tarantino
is not validating an existing artistic sensibility he is Dem demonstrating that
these elements had always been valid something to keep in mind for going into
this video which is as stated not about Forrest Gump but it's also not about
Pulp Fiction 

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So...

<u>[James takes off his coat and pink lights light up the set.]</u>

Let's talk about Barbie.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "8:05" %}
<compare>
<credits class="opening" {% include timecode %}>

> James Somerton  
Presents

> Written By  
<span style="font-size:x-large">Nick Herrgott</span>
& James Somerton

> Edited By  
James Somerton

> Lighting By  
Nick Herrgott

> Executive Producers
[Eight Patron Names]

> Executive Producers
[Eight Patron Names]

> Executive Producers
[Ten Patron Names]

> Deep Pink  
The Depth and Significance of The Barbie Movie


</credits>
</compare>



[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] thank
you [Music] this video is brought to you by Manta sleep Manta makes the world's
best sleep masks and sleep accessories a huge part of their mission is taking a
stand against hustle culture and giving naps a PR makeover and their Pro nap
movement the pro nap movement is about rejecting counterproductive nap shaming
corporate BS and reclaiming what should have always been yours in the first
place Your vitality one of the ways they're doing this is by launching their
line of specialized sleep masks these aren't just flimsy pieces of fabric you
throw over your eyes at bedtime these have cushioned infinitely adjustable eye
cups to fit any face you can get a traditional sleep mask a mask designed for
cooling one that produces steam a weighted mask a silk masks with unmatched
ventilation and even one with built-in speakers as a huge fan of ASMR that's my
favorite it has razor thin headphones and 20 hours of battery life take control
of your sleep and get some of your own Barbie magic back with a manta sleep mask
just use my code s-o-m-e-r-t-o-n at the link below to get the kind of Beautyrest
only Barbie could dream of [Music] foreign awaited movie about the titular line
of dolls by Mattel which have been a staple of American business since 1959. it
seemed for some time that this Barbie movie would remain a development hell due
to the divisive nature of a toy which is often criticized for its portrayal of
women and due to the divisive nature of Amy Schumer who was originally poised to
star before the creative team switched to Margot Robbie and Greta Gerwig we
almost got a very different movie thank sea fillers love them for some reason
this movie got very hype very quickly even before the review embargo was lifted
critics who saw early screenings were already speculating about Academy Awards
attention and likewise for two weeks following the release it was difficult to
find empty seats at any time of day some who would live through the 70s compared
this to the release of Star Wars Barbie earns that comparison the thing about
Barbie that strikes me as the most remarkable is what was just under discussion
here its sensibilities to the Gaze there is a reason we first flock towards
Barbie memes from the teaser trailer which was a parody of 2001 A Space Odyssey
and then participated in the barberheimer discourse as it became apparent that
Barbie was going to be more than counter programming for Christopher Nolan's
Oppenheimer it was direct competition from the very first leaks of Barbie's
Cowboy outfit spotted in Venice Beach to the Absurd reference to 2001 this movie
felt familiar to us granted it's one thing to throw out camp sensibilities in a
teaser trailer but the entire movie really was this campy which taking the film
itself out of consideration it should not be the case that it can't be rump
between LA and Barbie land should be taken as seriously as it has been both for
Technical and creative early Awards contention all the while being a cultural
Sensation that caused a pink shortage around the world Camp is associated with
movies like Barbarella Elvira or Batman and Robin Camp is what happens when you
fail so hard at making serious drama that you create Mommy Dearest or show Girls
Camp is for silly theater campus for the queers Camp isn't supposed to be for
proper prestigious Cinema Camp isn't supposed to go mainstream Studio Executives
couldn't tell the difference between Death Becomes Her and There's Something
About Mary well this is the problem with Camp as an artistic sensibility
sensibilities are called that because they're not a proper genre and they're
largely unqualifiable outside of direct examples like B-movie Aesthetics Camp is
largely dependent on context and the ability to establish context where this is
not only possible but where this is the norm Death Becomes Her leaves no
question that any single aspect of the narrative is outside the norm whatsoever
from beginning to end it is the world that is Camp and the characters are
elevated to exist within it the context is the comedy the setting needs to do
some heavy lifting to establish this that way by the time the main characters
decide they need to kidnap their ex-husband so he can continue doing their
makeup to make them look alive they're already participating in this heightened
campy World meanwhile There's Something About Mary is rooted almost entirely
within the context of the real world There's Something About Mary means that
this particular Mary though more specifically the events surrounding her are
outside the realm of normal but to discuss a distance from reality the audience
needs to maintain their view of reality elevated performances are standouts
mainly because Ben Stiller's character the audience's cipher is depicted as just
a normal guy trying to get the girl again this is a world where according to the
sensibilities of the movie people should be acting normal and there is a tension
drawn to people who are elevate rated the elevated characters are framed as
Outsiders to Conventional real world sensibilities Camp C akes to shift the
social conventions that we take for granted something like shaking someone's
hand in a job interview is a social construct and is a learned behavior within
the parameters of euro-american etiquette this is not to be confused with though
within the hegemony it almost always is a more Universal element of human nature
for which instinctively hugging people you care about is more typical thus to
the people who do not exist within the framework of euro-american cultural
imperialism a handshake is a gesture that doesn't mean anything at all
conventions around gender sexuality etiquette and formality can be subverted
because they only exist insofar as we acknowledge them we know this because
though gender exists in every pre-colonial culture the number of genders and
social roles of each gender can differ vastly likewise in Camp the media in
question can construct its own independent rules about how one should act for
instance Faye dunaway's Joan Crawford becomes the gold standard for how people
are expected to behave in this world of Mommy Dearest unfortunately it's not an
exact science dunaway's acting choices were so outrageous that it eclipses
everything else on screen without adequate framing devices namely another
character to act as her foil or stronger direction to properly frame this
performance the audience can take it for granted that her degree of intensity is
just how people are supposed to act in this world she is the lead character
after all and so all performances that do not meet her by comparison are the
Absurd ones granted it really helps the Joan Crawford herself was a very
elevated person in a very elevated world it's easy to make Camp about show
business because the day-to-day reality of existing in this world is outrageous
without a framing device to contextualize how Faye Dunaway fits into reality as
a human person she becomes a caricature and a scene which is not fictitious for
people who have lived through abusive parents can become comedic to people who
haven't simply because the media does not equip the audience to understand how
this particular human interaction fits into the context of real life and this
relationship dichotomy between real and hypothetical is particularly important
Barbie in this work of fiction there are at least two parallel worlds there is
our world and then there is Barbie land Barbie land's existence is under
explained but through context and framing we can gather how they are connected
Barbie land is the Hub of collective consciousness of people actively partaking
in Barbie the way people in the real world choose to engage with the idea of
Barbie influences events in Barbie land and the variations of Barbie which are
theoretically infinite the politics Logistics and laws of physics in Barbie land
are errantly dismissed in a way that is communicated directly and indirectly to
the audience what are the Ken's day I don't know the rules of the real world are
shifted on a fundamental level creating an alternate universe that can be
constructed on a camp platform alternate universes are an excellent framing
device for camp this is half the reason why show business is so Rife with Camp
sensibilities by all accounts getting into American show business is a whole
different spectrum of reality granted if you wanted to pick a parallel world to
American politics but inexcusably replace all male stereotypes with women Camp
is one tool that you can lean on to justify the mechanics of that world and
given that camp has a cultural background in subverting gender to comedic effect
it's a good match and furthermore when you're making a movie about a line of
dolls existing in another world where dolls typify the boundaries of Womanhood
they are meant to represent in a plotted discourse about the intersection of
woman and the idea of women why not just Go the whole way the collection of
Barbies in this place is governed by the real world Collective consciousness of
the idea of Barbie and how people play with Barbie casting Margot Robbie as
stereotypical Barbie is an act of casting so inspired it seems to be the only
valid choice but Barbies are also doctors politicians reporters authors lawyers
astronauts and even construction workers instruction site we need that good
feminine energy any idea that someone playing with Barbie has about Barbie will
present itself in Barbie land according to the driving philosophy of Barbie
women can be and are anything this is just a little bit more literal in Barbie
land but this works for good and bad things as presented by the driving plot of
the movie look at your upper thigh it's not cellulite that's going to spread
everywhere and then you're going to start getting sad and Wishy complicated no
this kind of ubiquitous Barbie experience facilitates and justifies how Barbies
would have access to this range of knowledge and experience the audience doesn't
need to question it because Barbie land isn't the real world there is no reason
not to take it for granted just like in the real world we seem to just take it
for granted that women earn 70 cents on the dollar for every dollar a man makes
Camp is the best asset the film has for engaging in academic discourse which
also cues the audience in to read deeper into the subtext Camp as a phenomenon
has been predominantly associated with Notions of extravagance irony and
theatricality the concept of Camp media is deeply rooted in gendered perceptions
and has over time come to be associated with a predominantly feminine
sensibility which is why I would argue many critics look down upon it but with
Barbie camp instead of functioning as a sensibility functions rather as the very
framing device for Barbie land so there is license to afford the plot some
silliness as well as intellectualism money is not speech and corporations have
have no free speech rights to begin with so any claim on their part to be
exercising or right is just their attempt to turn our democracy into a
plutocracy if I wasn't severely injured I would beat you off right now Ken if
I'll be chop with you any day cat nobody's going to beat anyone off neither of
those two performances seem out of place here Barbie is a toy which means that
naturally frivolity is going to be a component of how people engage with this
idea however as Barbie is an adult featured doll directed at allowing girls to
develop expectations about adulthood outside of motherhood Barbie land is
naturally going to reflect the use of this toy to project those fantasies a hush
balls over the general assembly as Stacy approaches the podium to deliver what
will no doubt be a stirring and memorable address do you guys everything about
dying oh this is where Barbie gets interesting from a literary standpoint
because while it may just seem to use Camp sensibilities it also presents a
possible evolution of Camp through the use of Camp to present the audience with
unfiltered gender Theory at which point Camp is less of an aesthetic and more of
a literary device whereas before Camp relied on literary devices in order to
present itself defamiliarization the carnivalesque irony maximalism Etc here
Camp itself is the vessel being used to present what amounts to gender Theory
101 which isn't an insult by any means it's rare that any kind of gender
discourse makes it into a movie these days when giving a woman a sword is the
least amount of effort it takes to evoke a collection of basement dwellers to
rise up and act so obnoxiously that the world thinks that there's just so many
of them when there's like eight Kemp allows Barbie to pass off these academic
elements as just part of the absurdist comedy everything exists to expand and
Elevate the presence of men just because this is framed as a joke and it is
comedic shouldn't suggest it's not true this may very well be quoting or
paraphrasing a textbook comedy here is just an angle about how this information
is presented if my life wasn't funny it would just be true and that is
completely unacceptable this isn't entirely unique to the Barbie movie cartoons
will often engage with real world phenomena in comedic ways what makes Barbie
Stand Out is the dichotomy between the real world and Barbie land the transit
between the two places in Barbie land Camp really can only function in a
theoretical way offering commentary about Concepts but no real application the
structure of the Barbie movie allows for the camp sensibility to not only pass
into the real world but afford a framing device for using Camp to directly
confront elements of our reality in a way that would not have been possible in
the campy at theoretical Barbie land the shift in atmosphere brings Camp
sensibilities to the real world viscerally it makes sense for Barbie and Ken to
deconstruct the real world in a way that aligns with the direct defamiliarized
sensibilities that exist in Barbie land it's like saying the quiet part loud and
there's no undertone of violence mine very much has an undertone of violence
through Barbie and Ken's existence in a subverted reality we see their
expectations of the real world shift dramatically where once it was taken for
granted the Kens as men were designated second-class citizens he is confronted
with a different reality rather than Camp challenging the sensibilities of
reality as we are accustomed to reality is challenging the sensibilities of Camp
which through the First Act the audience has been conditioned to take for
granted suddenly there's water coming out of that glass I'm not used to that
having anything in it Camp has a role in being able to afford these characters
insight into the real world and by proxy the audience that one cannot garnish
from existing within it and taking it for granted Barbie land being another
world entirely sets a very literal framing device not only for camp but a
commentary on Camp where Barbie land is a vessel for camp and the real world is
literally desaturated Camp sensibilities look acceptable in a camp environment
though in a realistic environment they stick out bearing in mind that this is an
absurdist comedy and much of the delivery exists within that style of humor and
I would just like to inform you I do not have a vagina and he does not have a
penis in the real world there is no attempt to interject Camp sensibilities into
the plot human characters largely act in accordance with the conventional
etiquette of our world with the exception of the Mattel headquarters provided
Mattel's proximity to Barbie land many of the same mechanics from there also
seem to have permeated the workplace they after all owe their success to selling
molded plastic which vaguely resembles a human woman and acts as a vessel for
the idea of a woman Will Ferrell's Mattel CEO is also not necessarily a CEO but
befits the most idealized idea of a CEO you think I spent my entire life in
boardroom because of a bottom line no I got into this business because of little
girls and their dreams and the least creepy way possible while stereotypical
Barbie threw the growth and development of her personhood becomes disillusioned
with her perfect plastic life and opts for a wider range of lived experiences it
seems like Will Ferrell's character is much more at home in the absurdism of
Barbie land Mr Mattel at least relax call me mother no thank you and honestly
observing how people pass between the real world and Barbie land is in and of
itself worthy of commentary regarding the effect of the ideas of the real world
versus the inability of the real world of permeate ideas real world
sensibilities when they enter the realm of camp become Camp okay kids it's time
to run out and get the new depression Barbie she wears sweatpants all day and
night and this applies to the patriarchy thank God this movie finally talks
about masculine camp for so long everyone always Associated camp with femininity
and feminine Expressions but we now have a visceral example of how easily Camp
sensibility can be retooled to apply to masculine spaces too and we're not even
going to talk about professional wrestling because that's a that's a whole other
video there's a whole other video about that [Music] yeah it's coming the exact
mechanics of how a single can applied patriarchal values to an entire world are
not as important this is a world constructed on play-like logic and concept why
were the Barbies corrupted well Camp as a device allows for a focus on theme and
message how it happened is significantly less important than why it happened the
short answer is that Barbie land has already abundantly established itself as
not holding itself to the same logical standard as our world we don't need to be
able to rationalize what's happening through the Ken's takeover of Barbie land
we see a feminine perspective on what it's like to exist within exclusively
masculine sensibilities and how if left unchecked a group of men can quickly
descend into that same kind of absurdism that we saw in the opening section of
the movie The sensibilities remain the same but the aesthetic completely changes
Sublime the framing is antagonistic Barbie land functions on a particular status
quo such as our world and when the status quo is upset in our world there are
significant powers that seek to divide and conquer to re-establish that the
presentation of these new mask camps sensibilities are almost identical to the
earlier sensibilities we have earlier and it's girls night hurry up the
president's here I am you're welcome and then come on in I'll play the guitar at
you we observed the first scene as camp and yet I think I can say declaratively
that we see the second one as cringe I feel as if the presentation and context
for these deliveries are fairly similar and same with all the Ken's chaotic
Ridiculousness from excessive veneration of the select group of highlighted
films and strategies for picking up girls the general aesthetic seems to be much
more unappealing simply because due to the range of expression afforded to Men
by patriarchal values there is a greater freedom to push these sensibilities
into the real world the reason we see this as cringe whereas the Dreamhouse
aesthetic was Camp is because we are confronted with kendam sensibilities so
often there is nothing really to de-familiarize we live in Kingdom already it's
just as heightened as Barbie land but we in the real world have already
acclimated to it you can't tell me that the sensibility is expressed in movies
like die hard Rambo The Expendables The Fast and Furious aren't drawing from the
same incredibly heightened Joan crawford-esque pool of themes as Showgirls and
yet there is a refusal to mark them as Camp because I would argue we simply take
this boys will be boys mentality about boy things and boy Aesthetics as a
cultural for granted fast X will never be considered Camp except by those of
appropriately refined taste because we exist in a world where that is the for
granted element of gender expression and that isn't to say that it's bad for
those who haven't been paying attention to this channel for the last three years
I love campy things the problem becomes when we hold that as the standard for
gendered media expectations for a young boy growing up saturated in that media
what kind of man is that going to generate as opposed to women whose gender
sensibilities when elevated to those Heights are considered to be deviations
from the norm at which point we invent the term Camp to describe those
sensibilities in a way the Fast and the Furious Shenanigans are just a normal
action movie Megan is just camp and here we find an underlying theme probably
one of the core themes of Barbie that the real fantasy of Barbie land was that
it existed as a space where women did not need to justify their Womanhood and of
course this also shouldn't suggest that the patriarchy doesn't also put this
Spotlight on men as well as evidenced by the countless generations of men who do
terrible things in order to live up to the example of a perceived father figure
who also sought The elusive pride of his father figure but it's not Daddy Issues
if you're a man society just holds it up up his boys being boys though what many
of us who chronically exist in gender discourse may not understand is that these
concepts are almost entirely unexplored by those outside of queerness and
femininity and now I just gave each of you of a certain age an uncomfortable
flashback to that time you were drinking with your old friends from high school
who are now straight married wherein one of their spouses proceeds to lay out
this whole finger-wagging discourse about gender and they're not really saying
anything wrong but the tone of voice and the authority of the wagging finger
seems to indicate that this is a grand Treatise that only the most critical of
thinkers have discerned meanwhile this is the kind of stuff that you live with
day in and day out so it's not really as groundbreaking as your friend's spouse
seems to think it is but they don't really understand this when you try to
explain it to them because they live in a Suburban bubble where they use
homemaking to recuse themselves from participating in gender discourse but what
pisses you off is that they still feel entitled to their two bits in spite of
the recusal Barbie's lighthearted approach to projecting these elements of
gender Theory to that end function to great effect by communicating these ideas
to that audience and this was only possible through its use of Camp
sensibilities to present them which as I said is a remarkable and creative use
for camp in a way that has not really been widely received by the public at
large before especially not as critically successfully as this movie has been
but that raises some questions about how the future of camp in cinema will play
out whether like through Pulp Fiction there will be a sudden retrospective
veneration of Camp as there was for the exploitation films or if it will just be
accepted as an outlier which prompts us to observe how Camp is manifesting in
other examples today [Music] Camp has become an increasingly prominent form of
comedic delivery in the prior few years and very likely due to covet 19. when
larger Studios head to postpone Productions and releases of new content smaller
Studios were able to adapt to regulations producing media which required smaller
casts and Crews I've already spoken about everything everywhere all at once
which though I hadn't mentioned it does lean heavily into Camp also to its
benefit is one of the rare Blockbuster examples of a camp-oriented movie for
which a starring role is a queer character Camp is used as a delivery device to
justify a marriage of outrageous concepts with deeply resonant themes also
noteworthy for earning an Oscar for horror icon Jamie Lee Curtis whose
wheelhouse of slasher movies should have been a black mark against her that was
only earlier this year whether by chance or if the film's immediate success
hearkened an overnight shift in cultural values spurring editors and directors
to nudge in-development projects towards this kind of camp we have seen in the
year and a half since everything everywhere all at once its release a marked
injection of these sensibilities into acclaimed Cinema among the most high
profile examples is polarizing divisive writer and director Ryan Johnson's Glass
Onion starring Daniel Craig and Janelle Monae Monet who attempted to outheard
their self as pansexual with a song about how great vaginas were while wearing
high fashion vulva trousers was misconstrued as making a generalized girl power
Anthem to which she had to make a public statement clarifying that no it was gay
and that was all Steven Tyler can make a song by the same name and everybody
gets it but when Janelle Monae does it it's all Vagina Monologues girl how much
sexuality do we have to rub in your face to be acknowledged exactly in Glass
Onion a sequel to knives out a murder mystery which makes it abundantly clear
who the murderer is but does its best to Gaslight you in doubting yourself
Janelle Monae plays Andy brand she is a successful businesswoman who was the
brains behind Alpha a tech company alluded to be similar to Facebook or Amazon
she was zucked out of the company by her ex-friend and business partner miles
Braun Ron is very closely based on and when Andy wounds his ego by blocking
miles's attempt to invest in a highly unstable fuel source because he thinks
that anything new means the future of everything he convinces their friend group
to help cheat Andy out of her shares of alpha when Andy teases that she found a
pivotal piece of evidence that will not only prove that Alpha was her
intellectual property but will remove miles from the company and destroy the
reputation of her suddenly no longer best friends miles murders her Monet also
plays Andy's twin sister Helen an Alabama Elementary School teacher with nobody
else in the cast except for the killer aware that Andy is dead Helen reaches out
to gentleman sleuth Benoit blah and he hatches a plan to figure out which one of
the friend group killed Andy by making everyone think that Helen is Andy these
movies are less about keeping you on the edge of your seat to guess who done it
and more about showing you a myriad of reasons about why rich people are just
the worst the plot itself could be passed for drama we have a white man
murdering a black woman to not only steal her success but also her Legacy and to
get away with it scot-free which is tragic though aside from the dark plot
there's this ugly betty-esque absurdity hiding behind bushes solving a
grandchild dramatic staged murder chronic name dropping of cultural references
and of course Benoit blah in general specific plot points such as the twin swap
feel perfectly at home with camp but there are other instances a character being
murdered on an island and the Coast Guard being unable to come because miles
insists on a dock that's more of an art piece than something useful and
therefore is only functional at low tide generating a character you hate so much
that you really don't mind watching the destruction of the Mona Lisa just to get
at them Benoit blah who at this point is a confirmed gay man spends about five
minutes reading elot I mean miles Brawn miles Brawn miles Brawn for Filth again
these movies are more about how terrible rich people are and likewise they seem
to paint people like miles Braun as possessing so much wealth that they have the
option of literally and figuratively separating themselves from reality and if
you have the kind of wealth that extends in into the billions constructing the
kind of Grecian Island Paradise home that would bankrupt most Nations is just a
drop in the bucket at which point it becomes normal to spend the kind of Fortune
that would be otherwise needed to eradicate homelessness in a reasonably large
city to install a giant glass Monument on the top floor of your Island Home
complete with a rotating display case that contains a custom designed car it
becomes normal to contract Jillian flinton to craft a convoluted fictional
murder mystery in order to entertain a handful of friends for the weekend it
becomes normal to hide an invitation in a multi-layer puzzle box because all the
other rich people in this movie take it for granted that this is normal and thus
our POV character becomes highlighted as the abnormal one because she does not
have the time or patience for this however the concern for me is that well if
Camp is going mainstream what does that mean for the kind of comedy and
heightened drama we have been associating with Cam for years as far as murder
mysteries go both clue and Glass Onion May both be camp but clue seems to lean
into camp in a bit more of a fundamental way than Glass Onion does a concern I
would have is that more prestigious creators are taking the wacky Whimsical
absurdism of camp and desaturating it to make it more palatable and align with
the more emotional drama of good character construction rather than just Flames
flame Flames flames on the side of my face because as much as I like seeing Camp
become elevated to valid use as a filmmaking tool for helping audiences identify
with characters in outrageous situations I don't want to see movies like clue
get priced out because they can't do camp with a special effects budget well
part of the wonders of being alive today means that you can take a relatively
small budget and get a reasonably convincing CGI bear who is ripped on cocaine
to great effect do you find yourself lethargic are you unwilling to engage in
society at large do you have difficulty finding enjoyment in things you used to
love are you struggling to find ways to enjoy a story that spends most of his
time trying to overbuild a world in the expectation it will be paid off in
sequels do you expect all movies to be the same and become afraid when they have
different pacing or plot beats that feel strange and unfamiliar you may be
suffering from too many Marvel movies people who suffer from too many Marvel
movies will speculate endlessly with their friends about possible spin-off ideas
for television programs but won't tell them that they're exhausted from having
to do hours of binging and research to understand what's going on at any given
episode because they just don't know what else keeps the Friendship alive if
exposed to too many Marvel movies at a young age you may even reject well-made
films because they don't have the Staples of Marvel movies or you may gauge the
quality of Cinema based on arbitrary Marvel values such as the suit up sequence
but there is a solution ask your doctor about taking a break from morph movies
side effects may include a sudden realization of how the Marvel formula has
permitted all movies being made in the last 10 years disappointment movies that
you don't need to speculate about in order to enjoy a lack of dopamine from
ignoring Marvel movie announcements a drastic increase of unrealistic
expectations for filmmakers judging a movie entirely based on the quality of CGI
and automatic consumption that anything that is popular is automatically a poor
quality potterheads are especially at risk if you find yourself revisiting Harry
Potter contact your doctor immediately it's time to start taking a break from
Marvel movies because there's more to life all right foreign side effect to The
Fall of the House of feige is that movie theaters actually have screens for
things other than CGI compositing disaster spandex soap operas now for which a
decrease in Creative oversight results in a sprawling cinematic Empire owing its
Twilight years to a collective of fans who have been gaslit into believing that
the Marvel Cinematic formula is the only possible let alone valid method of
presenting a film for which audiences only remaining primary draw to these
movies isn't to enjoy these stories but to be able to participate in online
speculation about who may or may not be Mephisto and I do mean that theaters
actually have screens for smaller movies now a read of some people who in rural
American communities could not see everything everywhere all at once when it
came out because Spider-Man no way home was still holding all the screens at
smaller theaters three months after its release but with Marvel movie news
chilling the crap out for a little bit not to mention this strikes we're getting
exposure to the kind of movie news that we haven't seen since before Obama
suddenly you don't need to make a CGI spectacle trailer to pull attention at
Hall age at Comic-Con smaller movies from smaller Studios can attract audiences
through more traditional methods without getting drowned out by A Chorus of
Marvel movies and movies trying to be Marvel movies which is great for things
like everything everywhere all at once and Barbie but also good for movies that
don't need to be highly stylized and have the backing of wealthy sponsors in
Marvel's Russo refugees in the last two years I've seen a public interest in
Camp that has been growing cocaine bear Megan and the blackening am I allowed to
talk about the blackening have found audiences that would not have been afforded
to them under the reign of Marvel the blackening in particular I'm going to talk
about the blackening I found to be an amazing archetypal example of how Camp can
be used to join an absurdist commentary of current social trends namely being
black in America within Blackness and within the white hegemony as well as
present very real moments as I said earlier Camp seems to be an excellent tool
for creators to distinguish what is real and what is fantasy in a way where
neither disrupts the tone but then again in spite of my my initial framing
around Barbie perhaps suddenly validating camp that may have been misleading
Barbie seems to be a very high profile instance of brazen Camp being accepted by
a mass audience and critics alike because for all we associate camp with being
frivolous or lesser than other serious sensibilities all of the aforementioned
creators Greta Gerwig the Daniels and Ryan Johnson are oscar-winning and
oscar-nominated and there are other acclaimed directors who lean heavily into
Camp as well bosslerman takawatiti Wes Anderson and jorgos lanthamos are all
building prestigious careers of the kind of humor and absurdism that had Spice
World panned by critics though venerated as a legend of Camp by critics today on
one level this may be surprising however a closer examination of cinematic
history shows that this style of theatricalism was once the status quo for drama
and comedy alike there are arguments to be made for limitations of what camp can
be for many within the queer Community they may say the camp can only be in
regard to things about or directed at queer people that there is an unspoken
Democratic order within the community that nominates content to be held up as
camp that only a queer Collective of lived-in sensibilities can designate Camp
alternatively there are creatives who would reject having a camp label on their
content due to the queer association with camp Camp was not a direct intentional
component of who's Afraid of Virginia wool for All About Eve films with
legendary impact and accolades the thing about camp that sets it apart from
other sensibilities and ultimately why those of taste are drawn to it is that
it's an autores device well granted it is possible to accidentally step into
Camp through a creative team's misalignment of sensibilities however it's much
more difficult to generate camp on purpose in order to create camp with intent a
very steady hand is required of the creative team it can't be artificially
replicated by a committee or a focus group a boardroom of Executives can't
create camp with a checklist because as I mentioned of sensibilities it is found
in the non-quantifiable elements of Framing and delivery go too far and you make
something cringy there's a reason the gays don't remember the live-action Mario
movie not going far enough is just boring Die Another Day nearly killed the bond
franchise to know where the perfect balance is which some creators may
accidentally step into you need to exist within Camp and genuinely enjoy Camp to
understand it Barbie was able to be made the way that it was because Greta
Gerwig did not have a whole lot of executive oversight from Warner Brothers the
so she and other creators had an opportunity to create they understood camp in a
way that many if not all Executives would not after all the Barbie movie was
made while Executives at Warner Discovery were desperately trying to sort out a
merger and dealing with a studio that can't seem to hold on to cash in spite of
owning DC Harry Potter Lord of the Rings Lego The Matrix the Looney Tunes Batman
Mortal Kombat and The Conjuring when Camp is made deliberately it is made by
creatives without executive oversight and as proof that Executives have no idea
what camp is cats movies are not reality they're an artistic version of reality
and for this reason Camp is perhaps a more natural state of being it recognizes
the falseness of the real world and how even the term reality is fraudulent
there is no universal truth no matter how those of privilege like to project
their version of the truth as universal but we know us Outsiders we know that
truth is subjective we know that our truth is not the truth of those who have
oppressed us so we are drawn to this artistic vessel that makes a mockery out of
truth and the social conventions we have been rejected from many of us may as
well have been rejected from reality itself and so we make our own worlds our
Barbie world we build our dream houses and in them we casually discuss the
changing manifestations of gender the way the straight and CIS makes small talk
over the changing weather as the idea of the stereotypical Barbie left Barbie
land it was because the idea of Barbie had become real it was no longer an ideal
that little girls could only hope to project into their future this Barbie
became something little girls can actually grow up to be and all of us outside
the confines of accepted normal long for that in some capacity many of us want
to exist in these Suburban spaces raising a family the way the Straits would but
that's not what real means not for everyone to be real is to be seen and
acknowledged in spite of lifestyle and choices to be taken as a for granted in
what one may expect to see to make no justifications or exceptions to be
unexceptional and accepted to face no friction for whatever one is or however
one would choose to live to be able to justify one's own life regardless of
whether it is a choice or not without needing to be born a certain way to
justify one's own existence and whether swimming with the current or against it
we all want to feel as if we exist and someday soon the idea of Barbie May no
longer be just a concept that a person who people think of as less than women
people of color queer people really can be anything as this idea enters into the
real world the original idea that facilitated her is no longer just an idea it
becomes reality ideas are fixed and static standing still waiting to become real
the role we play is deciding which ideas may become real because anything really
is possible so don't let anyone keep you inside of a box oh and Barbie is
absolutely asexual [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] foreign [Music]
foreign [Music] thank you [Music] thank you [Music]


{% comment %}

<comment id="barbie-ace">
{% include header video=ace_couple at="1h53m47s" %}

> Courtney: We saw some people praising his Barbie video recently, because apparently, he said, like, “By the way, Barbie absolutely is Asexual.” So we were like, “Alright, well, let’s watch that to see if he got anything wrong.” But it wasn’t about Asexuality at all. It started with a rant about Forrest Gump. It was weird.
> 
> Royce: The Asexuality line was a very quickly spoken closer. It was the last line in the video.
> 
> Courtney: It had nothing to do with the video. It was like, “Here’s a big rant about Forrest Gump. Here’s a big, partially incoherent monologue about Barbie,” which, some of it didn’t make any sense, some of it I didn’t agree with, some of it was totally irrelevant. He then branched off of Barbie to go talk about another movie that I’d never even seen, at one point. And the thesis — like, the lines, did not get connected well enough. But then, at the very end, the last line was, like, “Oh, and, by the way, Barbie’s Asexual.”
> 
> Courtney: And it’s like, there is so much we could actually say and analyze about why Barbie is Asexual, what that means, why that is queer, why that is a subversion. We made a video before, or… “a video.” We made a podcast about Barbie being Asexual, even before we saw the Barbie movie. Now that we have seen the Barbie movie, we could probably do one analyzing the movie itself if we really wanted to, but it wasn’t about Asexuality at all. So, given our history with him, it’s like, “You’re just scoring this for points. You are just trying to say, ‘Look, I am an Ace ally. Anyone who’s not examining me critically, praise me for my inclusivity, please.’”

</comment>

{% endcomment %}