---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/6rhoewfbdg0"

date: 2023-10-13
title: Vampires, and the Gays That Love Them
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "Blood Sucking Queers (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DjyGL_0zGXM" # Reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - hbomb

contributors:
  downloaded: $cite$TerraJRiley
  citation-plus: $ref$lvence$https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vRdleA0_a_Nf6OFYVWhFE_bTdi2ADco71HjJtNKrGacMyIzq9_fppXf5q2XhwIHJsWnvGDRLdZZQpve/pub
  citation: 
    - "[Todd in the Shadows](https://twitter.com/ShadowTodd/status/1731373746920022070)" #processed
    - "[Hbomberguy](https://twitter.com/Hbomberguy/status/1731399574630355324)" #processed
    - "[/u/fairguinevere](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/comment/kbxm4lg)" #processed
    - "[/u/catie_cat_3183](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/comment/kbzhm8u)" #processed

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
    jon_tyler_thesis: { color: 10, short: "(Tyler, 2017)", full: "Tyler, J. (2017). The trail of blood : queer history through vampire literature [Thesis]. In <em>Theses.</em> Item 221. University of Alabama in Huntsville. Retrieved Jan 12, 2024, from", url: "https://louis.uah.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1220&context=uah-theses", type: "student" } #at 1476s
    will_tringali_thesis: { color: 8, short: "(Tringali, 2016)", full: "Tringali‚ W.A. (2016, May 12). Not Just Dead, But Gay! Queerness and the Vampire [Thesis]. In <em>BSU Honors Program Theses and Projects</em>. Item 138. Available at: https://vc.bridgew.edu/honors_proj/138. Bridgewater State University. Retrieved Jan 12, 2024, from", url: "https://vc.bridgew.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1172&context=honors_proj", type: "student" }
    vox_article: { color: 6, short: "(Abad-Santos, 2022)", full: "Abad-Santos, A. (2022, Oct 14). <em>The messy, thrilling queer allegory in Interview with the Vampire</em> [Article]. Vox.com. Retrieved Jan 12, 2024, from", url: "https://www.vox.com/culture/2022/10/14/23404308/interview-with-the-vampire-gay" }
    
    # Todd: Sometimes he will just plain forget who he's stealing from. He gives Fae Basir a "based on" credit in his vampire video, but Fae Basir has only written one thing, about queer themes in "Let the Right One In," which James never discusses. I gues he intended to steal and forgot. # Hbomb: That is literally what happened (include media\GAcqtmZa4AAYkor.png)
    # fae_basir: { color: 2, short: "", full: "", url: "https://www.fangoria.com/original/oskar-loves-eli-let-the-right-one-in-and-trans-romance/" }
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

[sponsor plug]

Join us on Patreon to see videos up to six months early!
[link]

Vampires have been a part of queer culture for as long as queer culture has existed. But why?
#horrorstories #lgbt #halloween #gay

00:00 Introduction  
10:17 Part 1: You’re Dead  
19:38 Part 2: Lady Killers  
26:42 Part 3: Start Crossed  
39:42 Part 4 De-Fanged  
48:22 Part 5: The Sun Rises  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}




this video is brought to you by Squarespace there has arguably never been a
human civilization in history that did not exist under the threat of vampires in
a universal context they represent our fears of not only death but unrest in
death though it's one of those arose By Any Other Name kind of things where
monsters we may anthropologically recognize as vampires were not the sexy
murderous or twinkly vampires we know of today Proto vampires of the ancient
world had any range of characteristics and creation stories some Proto vampires
being blessed or cursed by gods or hearkened to fears of the unburied Dead
especially looking toward peoples in East Asia and the indigenous people of
Australia and the Americas there was almost always some kind of creature or
Monster which combined elements of undeath the consumption of the living and the
shunning of the sun when we observe historic vampires we observed the fear and
what the fear was usually meant to indicate usually vampiric fables served the
the utility of spooking a society into proper burial rights and to avoid
cannibalism being unable to walk in sunlight though that was probably more of a
symbolic gesture light specifically the sun in almost all pre-christian and
pre-colonial societies represented the highest good or capital T truth Sun gods
were usually the highest deity in a given Pantheon the Ancients very quickly
recognize that especially in the context of Agriculture the sun is kind of
important for almost almost everything and so by the power of the sun ancient
gods allowed those great civilizations to flourish so that what was outside of
the realm of what the gods considered holy was associated with Darkness the
Proto vampire and by extension the vampire proper was shunned from the sun
because they either represented something the public could recognize as evil or
because they had by action or accident done something to earn the God's
rejection some Gods also preferred to keep their followers in the dark however
take for instance the goddess Hecate she was in addition to the helenic pantheon
from Indo-European migrants and in spite of the fact that her domain of magic
and the moon were already covered by Artemis and Seline she became a permanent
fixture and was even translated into the Roman goddess trivia goddesses of the
dark were usually tied to the Moon an indication that even in the night there
remained a Holy Light from an alternative Source hecate's distinction was that
she was more closely associated with The Rustic Gods than the proper Olympians
closely associated with the god pan as occasionally a maternal figure that said
he enjoyed widespread and prominent Urban worship particularly in Athens really
interesting goddess for both her role in the pantheon but as well as the
historic movements of her myths across the Mediterranean she also had a cult of
witches who ate dead babies allegedly it should be no surprise that in helenic
myth hecate's daughter empusa was the bronze legged vampire who fed on the blood
of men she would seduce the particular fear hearkens to ancient gree's repulsion
of a powerful independent woman this also applies to The Witches of thessaly the
baby MERS of course any woman who seeks power outside the institutional misogyny
of ancient helis will be accused of heinous acts meanwhile the first female
Presidential nominee from a major political party was also accused of eating
babies it's been 5,000 years guys get something original for this isn't to say
that the muai are the sole progenitors of vampires but the impact that a bunch
of pagan homosexuals had on shaping subsequent Millennia of Christian European
culture is immeasurable it's remarkable just how much of the UI is recognizable
in Victorian depictions of vampires that said the values were slightly shifted
whereas the gothic writers of Europe focused on depicting nocturnal Predators
the Ancients downplayed this next to please don't have sex with dead things the
monotheistic colonization of Europe and Africa removed competing gods and with
the god of Abraham the sole deity coming to a parallel association with the sun
Europe found itself without any Divine protection in the night such as Moon Gods
imagery around the Christian God is so quintessentially tied to sunlight that he
may as well have been seen as a Sun God himself which is also weird because by
Catholic Doctrine he is also a triple deity for which triple deity ities were
predominantly women including Hecate herself and the Morgan who were both
associated with magic magic which is considered Unholy because of its
association with the moon anyway within Christian literature there is a strong
connection between God and the light of day look to the fairy queen a staple of
formative English literature published in 1590 an indicative of the Norman
re-evaluation of English mythological sensibilities away from the Norse and
Germanic roots of the Anglo-Saxon replacing it with a mythological cycle that is
more traditionally French this text makes frequent Illusions to light and
darkness dark forests and Wilderness is where the heroic Red Cross finds
denisons that are malevolent and who reject God and these denzin May challenge
his chivalry or tempt him away from God's grace or to Catholicism which
according to the anglicans was evil and while this isn't really about vampires
it does exemplify the Christian affinity for holding that the Unholy is that
which exists without God's light but this does apply to vampires in a more
European context for which our analysis shifts from the Proto vampires that can
be identified in most historic cultures to the creatures that come to mind with
the word vampire Europe's christianization brought about a closer association
between the nighttime and the Monsters of all kinds for which even The Arcadian
origins of the werewolf were used to taint the cycles of the Moon Moon the
vampire's distance from the literal object of sunlight representing the
figurative element of God's light was a method for European communities and
leaders to indirectly though very clearly articulate what values they wanted to
highlight as evil just as the ancient Greeks wanted to instill a culture with
fear of a woman seductress by plainly associating her with the Demonic urge to
eat babies the European vampires predatory nature and relegation to the Shadows
which were inaccessible to God was a free license to associate all things
outside of the social norm and connect it with evil it's like McCarthy era how
to spot a communist instructional videos the villagers of Europe would keep an
eye on their Lords and neighbors and cautionary fables of the vampire would help
them identify deviant Behavior which they would then report to their local
Parish snitching it's in white people's DNA the vampire became a method of
exploring these provocative desires in a coded fashion however true to the hay
code resemblances these desires had to be expressed in line with contemporary
European values of the day the monster the sexual deviant must be brutalized
it's no surprise that many vampires are found out due to their lurd sexual
overtones especially as they became increasingly connected to a kind of
extravagant sexual predator who exists in opulence and lavishness vampires came
to represent the urban Predator compared to the werewolves and ghosts of the
countryside so naturally vampires are from an anthropological Viewpoint an
excellent symbol of a society's Collective fears of who exactly is an other for
the helenic it was the Single Ladies within the public Circles of the 1700s and
onwards regardless of what was going on in the manners of the wealthy there was
an intense public fear of sexuality and as would develop throughout the 1800s an
intense push for Conformity to heteronormative sexual standards and gender roles
which was when the vampire had its greatest Heyday in storytelling and became a
staple of Gothic literature and folklore alike at least until now but before we
sink our teeth into the soft flesh of that let's hear a word from this video's
sponsor Squarespace this video is brought to you by Squarespace Squarespace is
an all-in-one web design and hosting platform that makes it easy for you to
create a website and Market your brand with industry-leading website templates
that are EAS to customize you don't need any design experience to show the world
your best digital self Squarespace also makes it easy to keep in touch with your
audience or customers with their expertly designed email templates that are just
as easy to customize as their websites you can follow up with customers or just
keep your audience in the loop with your latest updates that's why we're
launching a newsletter with certain social media sites going the way of the dodo
we wanted a way to keep in touch with our amazing subscribers and Squarespace
gives us the perfect way to do that in fact you can sign up for our newsletter
right now which will include links to new videos progress updates for T's
pictures as well as reviews articles and so much more you can sign up for free
at our Squarespace website jameson.com you can head to squarespace.com right now
for a free trial and when you're ready to launch your site go to squarespace.com
jameses that's j m s to save 10% off of your first purchase of a website or
domain start showing the world how amazing you are today with [Music]
Squarespace [Music] [Music] somehow we ended up with what we do in the shadows
well the series which is what is under discussion today was originally a
companion spin-off to the New Zealand independent film by Tao with Titi it has
likely since eclipsed the original content both in the range of Side characters
settings and World building but also in terms of how strongly this improv based
comedy series has endured Five Seasons without any sign of slowing down but what
makes this series so important to vampires like me well sure it plays off a
bunch of vampire Aesthetics and traits which point out how incoherent the
collective vampire Mythos is somehow it all finds a way into this comedic parody
and the absurdity of it all just adds to the comedy making these real people who
areound by certain vampiric rules do you think maybe you could let me into your
shelter of automobiles what oh yeah come on in of course and yes as the series
goes on it's been confirmed that each one of the main characters is some varant
an intensity of queer not that it really needed to be confirmed but it's nice to
have these outspoken queer characters who are queer without being preachy but
Thea make sure that they remember the part about me telling them that I'm gay so
I mean who isn't gay a lot of people oh okay woohoo I'll get the trumpets out
sorry however what we do vampires marks a titular turning point in how our
culture has come to understand vampires a precipice that has been thousands of
years in the making and this comes down to how the show frames and displays
these vampires the series is a documentary style comedy featuring frequent
cutaways confessional segments where the vampires address the audience directly
in order to offer additional elaboration on either elements of the show or how
the history of vampiric folklore manifests in the modern day half the bats you
see they are just vampires that have thrown terrible ories and they are too
ashamed to regain their vampire form so they just split around shame bats bats
full of Shame game the general premise of the show is a little bit more laxed
than the movie the series does have the overarching plot line of Gamo saying can
I has vampire aside from that the show is about a collection of Roommates who
are struggling with the drags of eternal life in modern America each of these
roommates can be seen as a typification of the various sub genres of vampires
with a couple of recurring characters filling in the gaps the comedic
sensibilities come from a gross defamiliarization and demystification of the
vampire Mythic itself what do we do in the shadows more or less what normal
people do but with a dash of chaotic anachronisms I didn't know it would be full
of curses all we need to do is send that to 10 friends or foes by samr and the
curse will be lifted where are we going to get the email addresses the email
address shop first there's nandor who is indicative of the kind of Vlad tepus
vampire which though he may have been a distant inspiration for Count Dracula
reconnecting Dracula to the warrior mythology wasn't something that would be
done until Francis Ford cop's incredibly faithful retelling of the story nandor
The Relentless is a former warlord of the fictional nation of alanar kaven
noak's portrayal of an Impaler inspired vampire becomes a commentary on the kind
of person who peaked at 17 when he scored a winning touchdown and took his team
to State knowing that he can't relive The Glory Days he struggles to find ways
to feel meaningful he knows he wants to do something something important but he
doesn't really know what that is or how to apply himself to the modern world in
order of who the gays are in a frenzy over there's Naja Natasia dimitrio takes
on a more generalized take on the Vampire Queen perhaps most clearly drawing
from the vampirus progenitor Camilla Nao is also the title of the 1994 horror
film about the daughter of Count Dracula FYI the more you know this is not that
najer though who was born in an impoverished Village on the Greek island of anti
pxa NAA is driven ambitious capable and strongly indicated to be the most rawly
powerful vampire in the household fearing only her sire the baron ofas Darth
Vader doesn't have [ __ ] on her while Naja initially plays into to the
competent women among male idiots Trope it's made abundantly clear that she
doesn't have her [ __ ] together at all either in the slightest and is far more
dependent on her idiots and she lets on Demetrio balances naja's Incredible
strength with the exact kind of character FLA that most a type personalities
suffer from being a complete hot [ __ ] mess something is going very pits up
with my life a third housemate is playing off a lesser known vampiric Tale the
psychic vampire Colin Robinson as such a vampire feeds off of the Life Energy of
someone rather than waving his hands and using magic to drain their life from
someone Colin Robinson feeds off of their heightened emotions or just general
annoyance he goes about talking about random information dumps that are
tangentially related to the topic at hand or by doing naturally irritating
things Colin Robinson seems to be a one note character at first from his
introduction though the show makes quick work of highlighting just the level of
absurdity that this character offers to the show less an allegory of an actual
kind of vampire and more so a comedic play about a certain kind of person TGIF
it's 5:00 somewhere D working hard or hardly work we all know one if you know
more than two Canadians chances are you know an energy vampire who do you think
runs the parliament Colin Robinson is a sheer contrast to normal vampires like
me who Pride themselves on how interesting they are to a psychic vampire being
interesting is detrimental to their ability to feed says here that I am 100%
white Colin Robinson is gray and beige preferring Cardigans and sweater vests
where the others Dawn extravagant gowns lavish multi-piece suit ensembles and
cir coats however it's not just husband who is worth discussion for this context
llo cravensworth he is probably the most memeable character of the show if for
no other reason than some very strategic line deliveries it took everyone a few
episodes to really get going but Matt Barry showed up on set and had his
character locked and loaded from the very beginning the only Harry frog I'm
interested in my darling is the one between your legs it's not just a frog it's
the whole swamp true if nandor is indicative of a vampiric folk tale of a
reclusive cruel Baron and najja is the Victorian vampiric seductress llo is a
satirical reflection of a vampire of the late 20th century capturing the raw
excessive sensuality of an Rice's vampires and those who she later inspired but
not the sparkly ones llo has an extreme Comfort around sex that would shock the
public facade of any British lawmaker of the 1800s or today granted for their
day job they'd conveniently forget about the sexual depravity that took part in
the West End the other vampires have their Ambitions and objectives and Grand
designs llo by contrast seems entirely content with where he is perfectly happy
to spend his days engaging not only in lurd act varying intensities but bearing
no discrimination to any of it he also partakes in any manner of art and culture
granted all the vampires are very open about their sexuality and sexual
attractions so some of my wives were good wives some of them were guy wives it's
not that different llo is the sexual deviant the victorians feared so deeply
meanwhile he's the most harmless of the group the most likely to form human
friendships and who seems to have the lowest body count save for Colin Robinson
who does not need to kill his victims to feed off of them though death might be
preferable in fact The Ensemble of characters and the fact that it's popular
enough to assume that the largest WTH of the rep public gets it seems to
indicate a shift not towards how we think of vampires as a culture but a shift
in our very culture itself vampires which were once decried as monsters to whom
social devians was compared to a kind of cosmic treason against the light of God
are now accepted as people with whom many of us could see ourselves being
friendly regardless what we do in the shadow seems to represent a most recent
step in our society dissemination of vampires and not only what they mean to us
but to gauge the moral value that is placed on the values that vampires
represent however with what we do in the shadows seeming to typify so many
vampire tropes and reflect upon us our shifting Evolution on the evaluation of
these social elements did these progenitors actually carry this weight and what
were exactly the original progenitors of these roommates to understand what
these vampires represent to our society we first need to understand what those
vampires meant to theirs the vampire enjoyed a period of relative anonymity
between Antiquity and the Industrial Revolution being creatures tied to Pagan
deities they fell to the Wayside in Lee of more generalized Revenant zombies
however there were a large number of reported vampire sightings in the 1700s
coming from the area of the Balan Peninsula it's difficult to really gauge what
vampires meant to prearo Europeans because the bulk of European fears were
attached to Witchcraft maybe Hecate and her Single Ladies weren't on sabatical
after all however in light of superstition migrating across Europe with a flood
of Eastern European immigrants vampires very suddenly and very quickly took the
common folk by the throat at the time there was a dualistic fascination with
Slavic culture that came in tandem with the fear of those foreign values passing
into proper European Society coupled of course with a very Victorian fear of
what they described as social Decay whatever that meant something about
foundational European values being abandoned for radical new ideas which may
have been at the time code for being afraid of immigrants but England has surely
shaking off that by now because the Americas are any better and you know in
light of that perhaps the reason white people people are so terrified of
immigrant cultures quote unquote invading is because we subconsciously are aware
that it's exactly what we white people did when we immigrated to America maybe
at any rate in perhaps in line with this social Decay was a growing trend of
Rockstar poets who wanted to write about sex but still wanted to keep up Airs of
being a respectable gentleman in order to avert censorship and Scandal they
wrote this subject of sexual Fascination into their villains it's nothing short
of hypocritical that Lord Byron wrote of empiric villain who fed on blood and
Chastity coincidental of course that he himself was likened to a vampire by one
of his gay exes no less while the vampire existed in poetry before then Lord
Byron's former personal physician John palador published a short work of Pros
fiction in 1819 called the vampire with a Y which also looking into it there was
like 12 poems called called The Vampire before then palador was just the first
to set it to pros and the first which specifically painted the vampire as making
his hunting ground out to be the social Elite by masquerading as one of them
himself no longer semi-d demonic cave dwellers roving the countryside nor the
reclusive occupants of seemingly deserted manners and forts there was only a
brief transition between the vampire of Southeastern Europe and the High rolling
lady killer of palador palador vampire is Lord rathen whose reputation in
English High Society warrants caution though the novel's protagonist John I mean
Aubrey instigates himself with him nevertheless Aubry is drawn to ruin on an
almost Supernatural level and while he never is particularly threatened by ruen
he overlooks an apparent Darkness Ruan and Aubrey go on a tour of Europe as was
a common Coming of Age ritual for young affluent men of the day much in the same
way the palador and Byron found themselves in a cottage on Lake Geneva with Mary
and Percy Shelly a famous late spring trip which is cited as being the
conception for Frankenstein granted the same-sex attraction between Ruan and
Aubry is subtext but not really palador had to be careful not to OD himself
publicly or he would suffer the same backlash that Byron often received granted
this was a day and age where sexual perversion of all kinds including gross
heterosexual promiscuity was on the same level as buggery provided more research
I would like to see if people of the day just took it for granted that a vampire
Prov ided promiscuity would also imply an extension of sexual appetites to
same-sex desire as a piece of evidence look to another and perhaps more
significant work of vampiric fiction carmilla by Irish author Sheridan lafu
unlike palador there isn't really any information to suggest that lafu engaged
in queerness in his own personal life though his expression of same-sex desire
among women is more Stark than among Camila's vampers there may be a few reasons
for this inclusion perhaps because it was European custom to tolerate close if
not intimate friendships Between Women alternatively because in line with an 80s
slasher movie reserving the most brutal deaths for those committing premarital
sex Carmela herself is brutalized in a way that was not reserved for any
vampires until Breaking Dawn part two while it can be said that the work is
sympathetic to queer people and that queerness itself is not the element that is
punished it can alternately be observed that punishment is reserved for the
sexual aggressor in order to protect Laura who represents the naive delicate
feminine sensibilities that the victorians praised so much the female vampire is
the ultimate predator and a staunched challenger of the patriarchal order her
Allure her very presence poses a direct threat as she seeks to penetrate her
male victims yet Carmela she operates quite differently from the female vampires
we encounter in the tale of Dracula later on you see Carmela Harbors no desire
for men when the vampire is a lesbian she transforms into a harbinger of
Destruction targeting her fellow women and subtly undermining the foundations of
heteronormative masculine dominance Carmela presents the most formidable
challenge to the Norms of heteronormativity due to her profound desire for women
and her steadfast rejection of the patriarchal power structure for her crime of
Grand Theft lesbian her hunters for she is hunted first drive a stake through
Carmela's heart then decapitate her and finally cremate her head and body upon a
funeral p and then they meticulously collect every last trace of her ashes and
scatter them over a nearby River ensuring that there is no possibility of
carmilla's remains reconstituting and reanimating this procedure leaves no room
for doubt about Carmelo's final demise Overkill much the link between vampires
and queerness was related seemingly in so far as vampires represented all manner
of sexual deviants though I can't help given the volume of queer writers who
seem to be drawn to the vampire thinking that even if just to read their ex's
perhaps there is something more to this I question whether there was a portion
of the vampiric Mythos that functioned as a beacon as if by some kind of code
vampires were symbols that non-conformists could signal to one another through
their public masquerade as monsters others within Society who themselves were
often compared to monsters could be drawn towards like minded spaces and through
the Squall of homophobic and quite frankly sex phobic social conditioning the
presence of this violent myth presented a Gateway for the imprudent to seek out
one another among the most significant elements of this pattern actually
occurred in 1976 of course it was in godamn San Francisco granted Interview with
a Vampire and an Rice have been under discussion previously on this channel
whereas once needed to be vigilant of vampire for their prowess over seduction
how would this pivotal component of vampires manifest during the sexual
Revolution anr's Vamps are pivotal for representing a shift in vampiric
perspectives this new vampire Louie sat down for an interview once upon a time
and changed how we all thought of vampires forever while vampires had been
sexual an rice was among the first to make them sexy while Interview with the
Vampire was not an initial success Chelsea Quin yarro St Germaine series of
central Romance Books began in 1978 and endured until 2014 Quinn being a woman
living near the San Francisco Bay area of the 70s and writing about a sensual
French immigrant vampire in New Orleans I guess Rice's vampires specifically
stood out because of her focus on their beauty specifically larts indeed when we
first encounter lart through the fevered lens of Louie who's very depressed his
depiction Bears an uncanny resemblance to Lord 's portrayal of Camila lat is
described as fair skinned possessing a graceful almost feline quality in his
movements and he's even liken to an angel a far cry from the beings distant from
God's light though granted the vampire had been renowned to shroud itself in a
curtain of perceived piety another departure from vampiric traditionalism is
Rice's insistence on the ritual to become a vampire no longer can a vampire just
bite you and turn you into one quite frankly it was never quite that clear when
a vampire bit to kill and when to spread the curse it was all very confusing
with rice the vampiric candidate must participate in the ritual by consuming the
blood of their sire and while this speaks to a kind of mandate for reciprocal
consent it fits better with the Victorian perspective on the curse an individual
who is forced into vampirism is tragic and empathetic though depicting each
vampire as an active participant in their own downfall is what you get the
tortures and pitchforks for some Poetic Justice and and make no mistake rice
makes a point of exemplifying that vampires without a pulse cannot develop an
erection however feeding on one another is unmistakably depicted as a sex act
during the titular interview Louie recounts I drank sucking the blood out of the
wounds experiencing for the first time since infancy the unique pleasure of
drawing nourishment the body wholly attune to the mind's focus on a single vital
Source oh yes normal fatio wi seeing how the two mysterious inaccessible
handsome wealthy bachelors in New Orleans suddenly find themselves raising a
forever child this is unmistakably a queer allegory and for anyone who had any
lingering doubts we have the recent television series [Music] where my my yes
vampires that [ __ ] AMC's rendition of Interview with the Vampire is a modern
unflinchingly maab and delightfully sexual reimagining of the tale what was once
subtext concerning gay themes now stands boldly in the foreground like a hardon
painting the picture of a dashing vampire in search of more than just transient
companionship when lat de Leon cor Whispers to Louis de Ponto about Desiring an
eternal counterpart it's evident that he's not in the market for just a FL mate
this Immortal sanguinary Duo is intriguingly queer identifying as such and their
interactions are not just charged but are undeniably intense passionate and
occasionally interspersed with the Crimson fluid of Life their existence Beyond
The vampiric Thirst challenges the very fabric of human convention interview
gracefully dances through a profound narrative intertwining the complexities of
sexuality race identity dominance and societal suppression through this lens it
underscores the history of America and the constraints it has placed on these
magnificently queer vampires forcing them into a dance of audacious queerness
and a myriad of misdeeds in a way the concept of gay vampires is intellectually
appetizing with eons at their disposal surely these Immortal beings would
indulge experiment and embrace the fluidity of their desires lat in his Grandeur
perceives vampires as beings Transcendent of mere humans consequently they are
unfettered by the petty prejudices and insecurities that plague mankind to them
Concepts like racism sexism and homophobia are trivial for Humanity itself is
deemed inconsequential as a mortal Lou's queer identity albeit concealed
combined with being black in a very racist America relegates him to society's
periphery lat with his telepathic Lamentations frequently underscores was the
ignorance and inelegance of racist humans who demean Louie for the color of his
skin till a start the real grotesquery lies within typical men in the realm of
the undead Louie is Unshackled from Mankind's oppressive decrees no longer ens
snared by societal bindings and racist overtones of the era in the tale wo in an
interview no narrator stands unquestionably credible however Daniel Lou's
biographer and wrapped listener casts a critical eye on Lou account through
Daniel's lens Lou emerges as a vulnerable victim ens snared by a manipulative
creature endowed with a myriad of captivating Powers many meticulously honed for
seduction Daniel perceives Louie as tragically naive and snared in a dance with
lart that embodies the essence of predator and prey a dynamic punctuated by a
staggering Chasm of power in a poignant exchange when Loui confides in Daniel
suggesting that his entanglement with lart was both mutual and equitably poised
Daniel retorts with a biting to the shame of queer theorists everywhere I got in
that coffin of my own free will in the quiet dark we were equals in Daniel's
discernment intertwining Notions of dominance vampirism mortality and the shadow
of death with the threads of queerness and passion is at best jarring
juxtaposition if not profoundly derogatory white Master black student but equal
in the quiet dark while Daniel's perspective isn't devoid of validity it stems
from an external Viewpoint he lacks the intimate experiences that molded Louie
Daniel has never grappled with the complexities of being gay he doesn't carry
the weight of being a person of color and despite Louis's vivid descriptions the
depths of Despair and vulnerability felt by a black queer man in the clutches of
Jim Crow era South elude Daniel's grasp observing The Narrative unfold and
immersing oneself in Louis Journey offers a window into his psyche Illuminating
his motivations and choices throughout the first season we saw why he was drawn
to lat and why he thought he could never leave him that intimacy might never be
replaced but he takes his chances eventually while sex and intimacy are
inextricably linked to queer identity so too are power and Rebellion queerness
represents resilience in a realm that often wishes your existence away inter
view intensifies this struggle just opposing the supernatural with the societal
it brings into sharp Focus the world's potential for harm and the sheer will it
demands to thrive within it perhaps being a gay vampire engaged in nefarious
activities isn't optimal yet it offers Louis a truer reflection of himself far
more than the Mortal realm ever could in Interview with the Vampire the book the
movie and now the TV show we witnessed the Inception of a trans formative era
for vampire literature and the vampire archetype in the 21st century lat Louie
and Arman the central characters of the ongoing vampire Chronicles emerge as
queer vampires who rice and her literary descendants employ to break free of the
cycle of functioning as a cautionary tale as luck would have it there is a
measurable element of tracking Rice's impact on the public perception and
expectation of vampires and that being how we went from this to this see [Music]
me see me now Dracula no this wasn't an Omission because it's been done and
analyzed to death but tracking the progress and development of vampires in the
last 200 years as per the extra canonical depictions of the count particularly
in the context of whether or not they're serving goosi B but busy is just busy
is something we can do here because for all the plethora versions of Dracula
several of these variations penned by Bram Stoker himself Francis Ford copel as
Bram Stoker's Dracula henceforth referred to as cop's Dracula to avoid confusion
was a unique furry Awakening I mean a unique sensual depiction of this titular
Transylvanian recluse even in the book Dracula is never as explicitly seductive
as he is with Gary Oldman and wiona Ryder ey [ __ ] each other on the orian
streets of England Bram Stoker himself was arguably gay and the figure of
Dracula was inspired by an emotionally distant employer of his and while it is
widely accepted that there is an abundance of subtext to be read into the
exchanges of Jonathan Harker and Count Dracula the film does not elaborate on
them mostly fun fact that was improvised Gary Oldman was chronically Sauced on
set and it was scripted that Dracula had cut Hawker Gary just went and licked it
up and ended up slicing his tongue open in the process meanwhile that's the most
unsettling shot in the entire movie not the most memorable because other
elements of the book that had either been subtext or alluded to are included yes
Lucy is a bit of a [ __ ] and we love her for that though I'm grateful that
stoker framed her death as not a punishment for her promiscuity but as a tragic
turn of someone malevolently exploiting her for it Dracula's more Fant fantastic
Powers such as his shape shifting are plainly depicted Stoker's Illusions to
Vlad the Impaler are confirmed and Copa expands on the relationship between
Dracula and Mina inserting a subplot around the long forlorn Romance the novel
itself was a little bit subversive aside from Jona ship name and the band of
vampire Hunters being too gay to function most notably among them the Texan I
mean if your name is Quincy then you can blame your parents for your
homosexuality however it stands out from other Adventure literature of the time
that only one of the group to make any Headway is a woman Mina For Whom the men
in the cast chronically fuss over her delicate feminine sensibilities Copa also
includes stronger religious overtones to boot again the significant element here
is how readily Copa depicts a Dracula who [ __ ] whereas Dracula has been more
prominently depicted as a reclusive humanoid monster from nuratu plan nine from
outer space Salem's Lot the last voice voage of the demer this figure has almost
exclusively been painted white and shown with clownishly monstrous features but
Copa creates a monster For Whom the audience looks at and completely understands
what Mina is so horny about perhaps due to Dracula's capacity to shift forms
between beautiful and hideous man and wolf Copa is depicting a visile range of
duplicity the vampire's speciality and that wouldn't be an inaccurate reading
were it not for the fact that Mina's feelings for him persist even as she sees
him at his most monstrous coupled with the fact that cop's Dracula depicts him
as a tragic figure whose shunning of God's light was spurned by a broken heart
and then turned to Vengeance that draws him closer to Rice's influence however a
lot happened between cop's Dracula and the recent television depiction of Lou
lat Armand and Claudia which beckons the question what happened with that
Stephanie Meer thing okay sure the vampires were sparkly for some reason
apparently there was a scene from the book Maya saw in a dream where Edward was
sparkling in the Sun and she built the whole damn story around that for some
reason that just screamed vampire to her I guess and sure St and patson rubbed a
lot of hopeful actors the wrong way for how quick they were to mock can insult
the franchise that gave them careers however between them and Taylor LNO who's
getting work in Oscar nominations these days and we could talk about Twilight
and why it sucks but we need to protect our mental health we can analyze it to
death and because of a Mormon riter evoking imagery of a teenager who has sex
once gets pregnant and almost dies because of it but I I swear I I've done this
before I've talked about this before have I so if rice made vampires sexy Maya
seemed to make them romantic I don't even know what to call them because the
degree to which the central romance exhibits abusive traits is unsettling to
killing stalking proportions romantic is probably a good word if for no other
reason than describing the way Edward and his Undead supermodel friends were
intended to be seen they are certainly romance novel cover boys what was the
cause for this craze in our culture though and how did this affect the vampire
Mythos to answer the second question first it it didn't have any effect at least
not in the long term though at the time Twilight sees the endrin systems of
teenage girls like nothing else the fervor for this book series was at a fever
pitch of intensity we haven't seen since and was not dissimilar to that wizard
book which is our Sean Steelers they use it to make magnets even before the
movies Twilight generated a veritable Pacific trash island of merchandise
revolving around the team Edward Team Jacob love triangle Twilight's weird
popularity coincided with an incredibly weird point in history and it's very
consequentially American see America is a magical place where roughly every
eight years the culture economy and national identity shifts in radical ways and
nobody knows why well we do it seems that for some reason the president of the
United States and the values of him and his cohorts have a profound effects on
Shifting the inherent sensibilities of the people of the nation at large and
this is very clearly exemplified by the the transition of power from the Clinton
Administration to the Bush Administration Bill Clinton may have made some empty
promises to the queer Community Lots however there was a building momentum
towards rights development and then George Bush committed voter fraud in Florida
and suddenly PTA groups that had once been developing a comfort with gay friends
and neighbors under Clinton those same people decided that perhaps a gay gym
teacher or scout leader were a threat to their children Bush's America is the
first right-wing Evangelical president was rooted heavily in purity-based values
one thing that mystifies me about people living in America is how they can't see
that even if the president does not explicitly make something part of their
political agenda it somehow ends up coming down into the whole culture for a
Whole Decade in this case a very loud discourse around pushing for abstinence
only sexual education in schools not only that but projecting those Purity
standards to adults as well reeling back from The Echoes of the sexual
Revolution that were redeveloping in the 1990s bushes America turned in the
opposite direction weirdly this would have been R for a reinvention of ye old
Victorian vampires where sex is bad and vampires are bad because they have sex
however this wouldn't be possible because an Rice's vampire Chronicles has since
become a global sensation for depicting vampires as tragic misunderstood and
empathetic anti-heroes in conjunction the 1994 film adaptation was still a game
Cher for the careers of Brad Pit Tom Cruz and Kiron Dunst even if an rice had at
the time renounced the darkness and began a brief foyer back into Catholicism
though that didn't last long vampires in so far as they were able to be fully
developed characters could not be exclusively villainous anymore so Twilight hit
a peak of popularity when it appealed to the darker edio fantasies of teenagers
while at the same time having a presentation that the Purity Brigade would give
a stamp of approval to Twilight could maintain the illusion of sexuality without
engaging with it in a meaningful way however for this reason Meer divorced
herself from the core philosophy of vampires which only begins at the sparkling
thing in the X-Men powers that dominate the latter half of the series vampires
as we can identify them traditionally Focus around sexual Liberation for which
the author and Society May moralize that as good or bad and because Myers Mormon
vampires I feel like that needs to be an episode of what we do in the shadows
Mormon vampires come knocking on your door are divorced from sex they are
divorced from sexual deviancy which as per creative license isn't a bad thing
what's puzzling to me is why the public chose to accept this depiction of
vampires that was so far removed from identifiable depictions for unfortunately
these narrative decisions pushed queer people further out of the genre that we
very much built as creators and subjects which was also a strong component of
Bush's personal belief system which he desperately tried to turn into policy no
gaze how boring for which institutional discrimination was the principal topic
for True Blood based on the southern vampire Mysteries True Blood in the least
Tolan way possible turned vampires into onetoone allegories for the queer
community at its core True Blood was more than just a vampire drama it was a
powerful platform that explored societal prejudices civil rights and the
intricacies of identity in a way that resonated deeply with the queer Community
not just because of the hot men from the onset True Blood used phrases like
coming out of the coffin for vampires revealing their existence to humans
mirrored in the real world experience of coming out the vampires fight for civil
rights recognition and acceptance in human society is reminiscent of the real
world struggles faced by the queer Community this allegory made the vampires
cause relatable and provided a unique perspective on societal prejudices and the
fight for equality the cultural nature of the series allowed for an exploration
of sexuality that goes beyond traditional binaries several characters including
some vampires demonstrate fluid sexual preferences this fluidity in True Blood
reflects the evolving understanding of sexuality in our real world where labels
become less rigid and more people acknowledge the spectrum of sexual
orientations True Blood walks so Elite could dimensionally transcend it's porn
with cinematography a running theme in the series is the fear of that which is
different or misunderstood the animosity many humans feel toward vampires and
True Blood is not dissimilar to the fear or distrust some individuals Harbor
toward the queer Community to this this day The Fellowship of the Sun an
extremist anti-vampire Church in the series provides a Critical examination of
how religion can be weaponized against marginalized groups the church's zealous
Crusade against vampires draws a parallel to the real world religious entities
that condemn and persecute lgbtq plus individuals based on dogmatic beliefs
throughout True Blood vampires rally for the V the vampire Rights Amendment
which would grant them equal rights as humans this political backdrop mirrors
the very real battle for queer rights from Marriage equality to
anti-discrimination laws the series juxtaposes The visceral emotions of the
vampire characters with these political movements emphasizing the human or
vampire faces behind the issues for many characters their journey in the series
is one of self-acceptance just as Jason Stackhouse grapples with his attraction
to vampires perhaps even male ones or terara thoron comes to terms with her own
sexuality many queer individuals wrestle with with internalized prejudices
before they can fully accept themselves these let's say fictional characters and
creatures say a lot about our society especially those considered the least
Among Us from the monsters of Y to the dangerous foreigners of the 17 and 1800s
to the sexual predators of the 1900s and then the Sparkles and civil rights
allegories of the 2000s but what does it say about our society today the mass
acceptance of the Staten Island vampires signal more than just a spiritual
victory of the rights fights shown in True Blood but rather an indication that
in spite of widespread political and institutional persecution we seem to be
finding acceptance on a societal level that we did not have before we meaning
queer people but also we meaning the sex positive earlier queer leaders in the
60s and 70s sought to use the sexual Revolution to justify the advancement of
queer rights if the stigma is removed from sex itself then there is little
ground for persecuting one for whom they have sex with consent provided of
course the victorians would not see the comedy and what we do in the shadows
because of the focus on a need for poetic justice of those who knowingly live
outside of God's light we don't want to see these vampires punished even if they
are kind of shitty people sometimes instead we Champion their personhood and
even their small victories over Petty Stu for who Among Us has not had the dream
of starting a vampire nightclub or even just had a hard time looking for love
without realizing that what you were looking for was there all along to accept
the vampire in their traditional form as is often presented and what we do in
the shadows is to accept the full spectrum of what they were meant to
traditionally signify no longer does the sex positive vampire require Poetic
Justice near a stake to the heart nor a decapitation and consuming only a
consensual amount of garlic for what threat did Carmela really afford to anyone
if not the occasional snatching of panties to our forebearers in Antiquity the
real threat was of Sex and the seduction though specifically sex that defied the
typical Norms of patriarchal power dynamics the man who is penetrated by another
man the woman who can exchange intimacy without a man the real evil of vampires
was their affinity for challenging the conventional power structure rures the
murder thing was just icing but the fear the real fear was sex itself by no
longer fearing the vampire are we shedding a fear of sex or are we too as a
people abandoning the patriarchal structures that so much of History constructed
itself around if this is the moral Decay the victorians feared so much Society
does not seem worse off for it if anything Society is worse for enduring the
throngs of violence against the vampiric the Deviant women queers sexuality has
come out of the closet no longer are we forced to hide in the shadows just
because we're not having sex to make the next generation of good God-fearing
Christians dim lamp light has turned into livid LEDs brightening up the lives of
the sex positive for the whole world to see if they want and whether they like
it most do or not [ __ ] them we're not turning those lights off we don't have
to hide what we do in the shadows anymore trust me gay is in gay is hot I want
some gay gay it's going to be [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] oh [Music] a
[Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] a [Music] [Applause]
[Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] yeah [Music] [Applause]
[Music] [Applause] [Music]

-----

{% comment %}
I genuinely don't know how possible it is to catch this man's plagarism in its entirety — I skipped to a random time in his vampire video, and came across a sentence lifted wholesale from a 2017 PHD thesis.

https://youtu.be/6rHOEWFBDg0?si=vKpglzFxkpX40Vsl&t=1476

https://louis.uah.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1220&context=uah-theses

> The female vampire is the ultimate predator and challenger of the patriarchal system because of her desirability, her threat to penetrate her male victims, and her threat to eat her children. But Carmilla works differently than the female vampires of Dracula. Carmilla does not desire men. When the vampire is a lesbian, she becomes “the destroyer of other women and undermines heteronormative masculine power” (Hobson 11). Carmilla performs this function by corrupting the bonds of friendship she forms with the protagonist Laura.

{% endcomment %}