---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/9yzmqebrszy"

date: 2023-02-01
title: The Death of Queer Privacy
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_phKV9gZUJc" # Reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - feb26-unprivate

contributors:
  downloaded: $cite$TerraJRiley
  citation-plus: $ref$lvence$https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vSyzDH5rNZUyxnHrQAhxXQpfeL1HHBEfzgWB1ze6_xnzdvUKQkv6ZiHnPx_zZun3_aUDgOv1ALMteA8/pub

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

[sponsor plug]

With the release of "Knock At The Cabin", we decided to take a look at the growing attacks on the queer community's privacy and security. 

PATREON LINK: [link]  
James's Twitter: [link]  
Nicks Twitter: [link]  

00:00 Introduction  
05:57 Part One - Full Coverage  
18:18 Part Two - Policy Reminder  
23:40 Part Three - Terms and Conditions  
31:30 Part Four - The Fine Print  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

this video is brought to you by Atlas VPN I've been noticing something over the
last few months years that's been bothering me but I haven't spoken that much
about it I wonder if you my dear viewers have noticed the same thing that being
the complete and utter neglect for the privacy of queer people first let's talk
about celebrities while many people feel like celebrities give up their right to
privacy when they become an actor or singer or public figure in general that's
not actually how the world works you don't give up your right to privacy when
you become a teacher or a lawyer of course the most prominent recent example of
this is kit Connor who was forced out of the closet this past year when an
internet mob essentially accused him of queerbaiting real people can't queer
bait by the way by playing a queer character in multiple pieces of media while
not actively being out as queer himself it got even worse for him when horror of
Horrors he was spotted holding a girl's hand so to Tamp down on the rising tide
of the internet boundary pushing he came out as bisexual some have since accused
him of being a fake bisexual and refused to believe him until he has a boyfriend
to them I say stop but he's far from the only celebrity to be pushed Out of the
Closet in 1996 Nathan Lane appeared on Oprah to promote the birdcage prior to
the taping he specifically said he didn't want to talk about his sexuality but
when they went live Oprah began pushing for answers anyway Lance Bass was forced
to make a public statement about his sexuality in 2006 after Perez Hilton
nicknamed him princess Frosty locks and wouldn't stop posting blog entries about
how obviously gay he was Perez Hilton also instigated a similar campaign against
Neil Patrick Harris the same year and it's only gotten worse since social media
became a factor rumors swirled around online about actresses such as Rebel
Wilson and Kristen Stewart eventually leading to them coming out under threats
from tabloid sites it's not like the old days when gay rumors would start up in
a Hollywood studio or a record label would have a star paired up with a
similarly famous celebrity to hide their sexuality though many fans still think
this does happen with people like Taylor Swift and Harry Styles Studios and
labels have much less control over stars now though they do continue to
influence many people to stay in the closet I personally know of at least three
Hollywood actors who have been in major box office successes who are out to
their friends and family but not to the public which some say is as bad as them
lying to their fans but why do fans have a right to know who's dating who I
blame Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez for this they helped reignite the celebrity
couple industry back in the 90s and it hasn't died down since the parasocial
environment of Twitter and Instagram has allowed the walls to fall down between
fans and celebrities where once fans only read what stars publicists wanted them
to read now they can keep up with their faves on an almost minute-by-minute
basis so of course they want to know everything about them because they feel
more like long-distance friends now than Hollywood stars which is bad enough
when it comes to straight people but it's doubly bad for queer people because
our privacy can in far too many cases be the only barrier keeping us safe from
violent bigots the walls we put up can be very important and create a safe Zone
in a world where our safety is apparently Up For Debate I've been thinking about
all of this for quite some time but it all started to crystallize in my mind
when I read the book the cabin at the End of the World by Paul G Tremblay since
a film adaptation of it entitled knock at the cabin was being readied for
release and in the pages of this book I saw how queer privacy can be so easily
neglected but before we get into that I want to talk to you about how you can
protect your own privacy with this video's sponsor atlasvpn who are currently
running a major discount on a three-year subscription amounting to only 1.99 a
month with a 30-day money-back guarantee online privacy is becoming more and
more important as our lives shift Evermore to exclusively online spaces as
someone who was doxed only within the last few months I know how important it is
for your location to be as opaque as possible online Atlas has also been
incredibly helpful for this channel as well since some of the content we cover
isn't legally available in Canada without an absurdly priced cable package I've
been able to use their geolocation feature to convince certain streaming
services that I'm actually in the US giving me access to a lot of the queer
content I wouldn't have access to in Canada and I get to actually support those
queer shows instead of pirating them which is pretty nice Atlas VPN also keeps
your Google search history safe which I know some of you would very much
appreciate and protects you from malware and can even get you better deals on
merchandise by tricking websites into thinking that you're a local buyer instead
of an international one this has helped me a lot with my ever increasing anime
merch collection as I descend further and further into weebdum and it's just the
best deal on a VPN out there like I said at only 1.99 a month for a three year
subscription their pricing can't be beat this price is for a limited time though
so click on the link below to learn more and start protecting your privacy today
foreign [Music] [Music] foreign [Music] because this is less about knock at the
cabin and more about knock at the cabin there will be spoilers skip ahead to
part two policy reminder if you want to see the movie and going fresh if you
don't want to see the movie we're not going to hinge everything on knowing what
happens in the plot so you're not going to be kept out of the loop I'm basing
these ideas entirely on the book though titled cabin at the end of the world
because you know the movie wasn't out when I wrote this judging from the
trailers it seems like the movie is following the plot pretty closely though
however given how the book ends I could foresee a studio maybe wanting to change
that ending some things you can get away with in books that audiences simply
will not tolerate if they see it on screen anyway knock at the cabin's General
premise is that a pair of gay fathers take their adopted daughter to a secluded
cabin getaway a group of hooligans show up and barges in and takes the family
hostage with the intent of causing violence before you say been there done that
the twist is that the group is a doomsday cult that's trying to prevent the end
of the world according to them unless the gay family picks one family member and
chooses to kill them the world will come to an end the group demonstrates that
they are not full of [ __ ] it's a long story but the audience can be confident
that these cultists really can prophesy the end of the world and they're not
just whack job religious nuts looking for a gay bashing which is kind of scarier
the daughter gets killed which is why I said they may want to change the ending
of this movie because that's a little dark work for the big screen but M Night
Shyamalan has gone to pretty dark places before even with kids so Maybe [Music]
but because it's the cultists who accidentally kill the girl and not the other
two members of the gay family the apocalypse prevention plan is void and the
reader and presumably the movie going audience is led to believe though remains
unsure that the apocalypse is still DTF if anything they may swap out the
daughter for one of the husbands to make it a little bit more palatable in the
movie but the ambiguous Supernatural world ending has some serious Shyamalan
Vibe so I can assume that this is where the movie is headed the point remains
however the continuation of the world hinges on the destruction of a queer
family which I didn't really even think of that when I first read the book
someone pointed it out to me on a stream and then you can't really unthink what
has been thought but here we go because that idea opens the story up to a myriad
of different readings when something isn't just about showing representation for
representation's sake that means it's about something which means there's a lot
to unpack here the book was written by Paul G Tremblay though you wouldn't know
that from the movie's marketing leading me to believe that the daughter might
actually get killed and M night doesn't want anyone reading the book and
spoiling the ending there isn't as much biographical information about Tremblay
as say other horror authors like Stephen King but in the context of queerness
everything I could find about him indicates that he is straight and while I
continue to hold my position that you should not need to be of a certain
identity to create characters of that identity there are some life experiences
that are a little bit sensitive to that particular community in the queer
Community for instance violence against us is one of them violenced against our
families is something that our art has only really begun to explore for instance
2017's American Horror Story cult explored this and that was the first time it
popped up on my radar however when it comes to knock at the cabin the book and
presumably the movie one of the strange selling points is that the queerness of
the dads is more or less irrelevant to the plot in the book one of the fathers
has a flashback to a queer bashing but aside from that it's entirely not a topic
of discussion really in fact the cultists go out of their way to say that
they're super duper not homophobic but given that this is a Creator who is
explicitly making a decision to write outside his lived experiences why did he
write it like this because the story would have been exactly the same if it was
swapped out for a straight couple one of whom had been attacked in the past what
statements May Tremblay be making what readings could we take from this story
there are of course positive messages an argument for queer sympathy would
implore the reader to acknowledge the threat the queer people and their budding
families are put under in this new age of tepid queer acceptance it may be that
the real tragedy is that this queer family went through all the trouble in
rigmaro of eking out adoption only for the child to be ripped away anyway
especially with the condition of the American Supreme Court it's altogether not
out of the question that children could be taken away from their queer mothers
and fathers just look at what's happening to trans children and their supportive
biological parents in the southern states right now however if that's the
intended reading it's kind of weak because while adoption is a very long
methodical expensive struggle so are fertility treatments for women the threat
of violence against a child you worked exceptionally hard to produce is not a
fear that is exclusive to queer families and quite frankly neither is it option
the most optimistic dare I say queer positive reading of the story is that
Tremblay is speaking to the family bond within queer families being just as
strong as they would be among straight ones the entire story is built on the
premise that both queer fathers are unwilling and incapable of sacrificing
another of the trio a death only occurs by accident whereas queer detractors may
assume that one or both of the fathers would just be willing to throw the family
away to save their own skin and honestly come a bit closer I'm gonna let you in
on a little secret I think that may be the intended reading okay just between us
however even though that's a possible takeaway the story is still built around
fantasizing trauma tragedy and violence upon a queer family and that still makes
me a little bit uncomfortable just taking a look at the Optics of the story
because in spite of these readings there remains some very very homophobic ones
first off the continuation of the world is predicated on a queer family's
destruction this could be interpreted as queer families being a threat to
societal cohesion or such vagaries that are pushed by right-wing pundits another
reading would claim that queer rights as a whole need to be put away to focus on
more apocalyptic features of our current world things like climate change
economic collapse plagues and this never-ending string of conflicts that we've
been embroiled in since 9 11. the latter of which I'm partially convinced future
historians are actually going to refer to as World War III this could hold a
certain make America great again kind of nostalgia that sort of remaps History
to insert that Society he really started to take a nosedive when the gays began
insisting that they needed to start families and that if we're gonna stop the
world from burning down it's a small price to pay to put the boot down on some
home-making Queens the interesting Nuance behind this story though is that the
cultists cannot be the ones to murder one of the family members it must be the
Family itself that breaks up from within translated into a real world suggestion
that the onus is on queer families to break up on their own volition in order to
maintain social order because if the government or bigots do these actions
against queer families then the social outcry will dissolve social cohesion
regardless instead if queerness quietly goes back into the closet all will be
right with the world an even more negative reading of the story could contain a
nasty message of queer people saying provided how much violence has been used
against you and your community historically is it not irresponsible for you to
start families and invite children into that kind of threat of violence which
would be wrong because we don't blame victims for their circumstances even if
the objective is to be normal the condition of queer rights is predicated on the
ability to choose how you want to fit into the heterohegemony or not without
persecution now granted these very negative readings of the story are all far
more nuanced than bigots and right Wingers or quite frankly centrists are
usually capable of demonstrating and I want to be clear I am not saying that
Paul G Tremblay or M Night Shyamalan are queerphobic Paul G Tremblay not a
homophobe until explicitly demonstrated otherwise and quite frankly he may very
well be bisexual pansexual or asexual you don't need to only marry dudes to be a
queer man his identity is only really important for questioning why it was so
important for this story to be focused on a queer family it would help us
understand what the intended takeaway could be however within the story there is
a lack of guiding framing devices to really suggest what the takeaway should be
the presence of homophobic readings is not necessarily a problem with the story
but a problem with the fact that these are real issues and real discussions that
are imposed on the queer Community from the outside the fact that these readings
are possible is concerning but only because these reflect the bigotry we
actually experience in day-to-day life in a world without homophobia this story
would not be remarkable for the sake of gay dads but rather the weird
apocalyptic cult and vague paranormal overtones make no mistake violence against
us is a threat to our immediate safety but these ideological discussions around
our identity are pivotal to the ongoing progress to facilitate our long-term
security the fight for our rights needs to be both reactionary and methodical we
need an ideal objective to know how we should navigate immediate threats in
order to strategically move towards our long-term goals and even the reactionary
Solutions are not usually efficient they are necessary until we can progress our
rights to a point where we do not need those kind of solutions for instance at
least in America where the story takes place leaning on the Supreme Court for
what rights have been won for us may not have been the best plan if only
retrospectively now that the Supreme Court has decided the former rulings no
longer matter if the immediate goal was marriage getting that goal by any means
necessary may have compromised the long-term progress to was there even a plan
of what to do after the marriage fight Was Won regardless of whether the Creator
is involved in this project are gay or straight I feel like such a hot button
discussion ought to have warranted a greater sensitivity for diminishing the
presence of these readings if homophobic readings are present then there are
ways to make it more difficult for the audience to come away with that reading
for instance yes there is a straight reading of Yuri on ice because the
confirmation was never verbalized however the mental gymnastics you have to do
in order to justify their straightness is in itself worthy of a gold medal many
of you may insist that this is just a story and that nobody's going to take
these homophobic messages away from it but keep in mind that Ted Cruz took away
a reading of Star Wars that singled out Luke Skywalker as a randian objectivist
when are we supposed to take messaging for face value like in Star Wars and how
are we supposed to distinguish that from media where the intended takeaway is
buried in subtext like my go-to example of Fight Club where the condemning
takeaway is actually more clear in the book The Answer usually lies in the
resolution and unfortunately when it comes to knock at the cabin the ending is a
bit too ambiguous to be definitive and in spite of the fact that these cultists
are explicitly described as not gay bashing wackos the setting is indicative of
these aforementioned queer anxieties especially when a straight couple would
have accomplished the exact same story without nearly as much baggage cynically
I may add that perhaps the couple was made to be gay for no other reason than to
distinguish them from a range of other murderous stranger shows up at a family's
rural residence stories which again is more likely than deliberate homophobia
the fact of the matter is that this kind of narrative is popping up in a period
of time when queer people are coming under a new wave of threats where many of
us are being attacked and forced out of spaces we believed could be safe see we
don't really have to be worried about bigotry knocking at our door anymore as
much as we worry about bigotry showing up in our DMs the internet was a
revolutionary tool for the organization of queer rights our leaders had depended
on phone calls and then spreading information through newsletters and bulletins
in the New Millennium online communities could grow up at a chat rooms blogs and
early social media platforms like Myspace if information passes easier then we
can organize easier queer communities gravitated to digital spaces because
unlike other marginalized communities we did not have generational districts
which we were born into a lesbian was just as likely to be born into a family in
rural South Dakota as one in Brooklyn whereas a homogeneously white community in
Maine was not likely to suddenly have a large group of Lebanese children born
into the Maternity Ward ethnic communities in cities where immigrant families
typically pooled were not only tightly knit but were densely packed into a few
city blocks like Little Italy or various chinatowns or black neighborhoods word
of mouth was much more effective at passing through these areas because most
people in the communities were in these areas while there may be a gay district
of a city the queer population may be concentrated here but most queer people
may live throughout the city and commute between their residents and these
Buyers Clubs and wherever else that the community has organized for this reason
internet organizations have been revolutionary for the disabled the deaf and
hard of hearing or any other communities that are mostly ignored through random
sampling which is why Elon musk's Twitter meltdowns would be hilarious if it
wasn't for the fact that the platform is essential for a lot of people's
advocacy organizing in the modern world if anything else the gays are Savvy 


I may have recently come under criticism for claiming that the AIDS epidemic took
a grand majority of our brilliant creative minds leaving out exceptions like
Andy Warhol who by some accounts was asexual or Elton John who by all accounts
was not naturally not all interesting gay people were horny and not all of them
her War horny were taken from us this is based on what could have been in the
1980s and 90s based on the prominence of queer creators in the 70s and 60s and
just how many queer people died of AIDS related complications in general in
spite of that this shouldn't suggest we lost our brilliant industrious Minds
queer newsletters and Publications took a swift turn to online spaces as our
fights around the world began to turn to marriage equality in Europe and America
and basic rights and protections in many other places this information Mobility
helped spread awareness demonstrate the power of the community and soften the
general public's opinion of us and overall helped us organize at a much swifter
rate than otherwise it's no surprise that as home computers became standard in
every household queer rights started to actually make tangible progress for the
first time however while our leaders were tech savvy our bigoted detractors did
eventually catch up the internet made it much easier for them to harass us it
seems before they needed to either live in LA San Francisco New York or any of
the other significant urban areas to harass us on mass or actually pay for
postage to send a hateful letter but it came to be that they could just fire off
some emails or invade message boards almost every queer person I know has gotten
some kind of hate email or DM hate mail for queer people especially creators and
people with a platform range from structured sermons with Biblical references to
just unhinged ranting tirades which amount to nothing more than a collection of
red flag buzzwords accusing us of sexually perverse actions and promising any
range of violent retributions so basically running the gamut of Republican
politicians ask anyone with a halfway prominent platform anonymity and privacy
are Illusions for those who know how with a little patience dedication and
untreated mental illness it can be a relatively simple process to find someone's
personal information or even an address doxing is a very real threat for people
who are already the target of discrimination coupled with the fact that law
enforcement have historically under investigated crimes and violence against
queer victims doxing someone is among the greatest flexes of privilege because
it acknowledges that the target does not have a viable recourse for violence
against them and no you cannot get doxed if you live in a historic Scottish
Manner and have already made the purchase of said property very public though
admittedly given that doxing can often be a dog whistle for a death threat I can
understand the anxiety it plays off of the classic I know where you live Trope
in horror movies where the possible victim is reminded that they are not safe in
a place that they had assumed they would be sure someone throwing homophobic
slurs in public is one thing but once the slurs and threats are coming from
inside the house things get very real very fast doxing and threats are becoming
one of the most common ways to silence queer voices even as our detractors claim
queer people do it to them I'm sure they do but there are significantly less of
us than there are of them and their platforms are traditionally much larger to
the point where all Joanne tweeting at a prominent trans figurehead could be
adjacent to putting out a social media hit at best we can hope the hit stays
within the twitterverse the frustrating part is that as these dog whistling
bigots blanket us all as barbarians for actions they too engage in queer people
stare down lists of threats and criticism for simply existing there's always
been pressure for queer people to cover in public covering as anamari Vida kinen
describes it refers to queer people toning down their sexuality in order to fit
better or easier into mainstream Society the expectation that queer people cover
is acknowledged as establishing a system of Oppression that coerces queer people
to act in specific ways with substantial threats of punishment for not doing so
when it is expected of them no holding hands in public for instance and
certainly no kissing in public almost every gay teenager has the fantasy of
being just as affectionate with their real or in most cases imaginary boyfriend
or girlfriend as their straight friends are but there is an immediate fear when
those thoughts enter your mind of the repercussions of doing so there did seem
to be some movement on this front in the last couple of decades it used to be
that you had to go to the gay hotspots of Castro Street Chelsea or Church Street
to feel comfortable and safe expressing your queerness unless there was a pride
parade going on but when I was in my late teens I saw shift to where a queer
person could be comfortable being themselves the map seemed to open up to
include most major cities and even small towns gays were making out on every
street corner in America according to conservatives this was never really the
case but it's the image that was sent out by the mainstream media that
homophobia had for the most part been dealt with especially after gay marriage
started going mainstream if we could get married we must have won the war but
fights over people refusing to issue marriage licenses and refusing to bake
wedding cakes painted a very different picture we hadn't won the war we'd merely
back the enemy into a corner and now they felt threatened enough to retaliate in
any way they saw fit Los Angeles a city most would consider pretty queer
friendly saw a 21 increase in gay hate crimes in 2021 alone marking the highest
rate of such hate crimes in 18 years gay men with a target of 85 percent of
these crimes meanwhile 93 percent of anti-trans hate crimes that were reported
were violent in nature this percentage of violence was greater than any other
stigmatized group that was recorded by the 2021 hate crimes Report law
enforcement expect that these figures only represent a small portion of the
actual total number of instances that were motivated by hatred since many would
go unreported due to people not being out of the closet feeling ashamed or a
lingering animosity toward police from the queer community in fact hate crimes
targeting LGBT individuals have climbed for the past four straight years
according to data published by the FBI all of this coincided with a rise in
right-wing thinking across North America and Europe one unnamed Republican
staffer said to the Atlantic conservatives who came before us were insufferably
naive they thought liberals and conservatives both want what's best for America
disagreeing only on how to get there but that's not true woke Elites
increasingly the mainstream left of this country do not want what we want what
they want is to destroy us the rise in right-wing radicalism seen in the likes
of the Maga movement the increasing hate toward trans people and the surprising
rise of actual fascists like Francis Marie Lepa lines up directly with the rise
of lgbtq hate crimes trans people had been the main target of these groups with
trans bathroom access drawing the ire of so-called feminists who thought that
dangerous men would actually put in the effort to dress as a woman to gain
access to women's bathrooms they don't do that this gave gay men a sense of
safety I think believing that the target had shifted and so we gaze could relax
but the people who hate the lgbtq community don't really give a damn which
letter you associate with since attacks on gay men have been on the rise
recently with the growing fervor over the groomer anti-queer propaganda
according to the center on extremism this misleading and deceptive story has
been weaponized in order to characterize members of the queer Community as
groomers in their effort to discredit those who identify as queer these
anti-queer Fanatics have misused a valid phrase that is tied to sexual assault
rain rape abuse and incest national network the largest anti-sexual violence
organization in the United States defines grooming as manipulative behaviors
used by sexual abusers to gain access to a potential victim coerce them into
agreeing to be abused and reduce the risk of being caught words like grooming
and groomer are not used in a proper context by anti-queers people instead they
argue that talking about sexual orientation and gender identity in public in
general makes queer individuals pedophiles who prey on children they say that
queer people are trying to sexualize children and recruit them by introducing
them to these subjects at an early age in the hopes that they would begin to
question their own gender and sexual identities the result of this widespread
hateful rhetoric has been a spike in harassment threats and violence especially
toward gay men and trans people across the U.S extremists and mainstream
conservatives alike employ this rhetoric to harass the queer Community painting
us as child predators and criminals which not only increases the likelihood of
hate crimes being committed against us but also of us as previously mentioned
covering the right wing knows the queer people aren't going anywhere that we
exist and will continue to exist but they see this as the perfect opportunity to
drive us back into our closets if they could just make us go into hiding again
so that they don't have to see us so they don't have to acknowledge our
existence these attacks both physical and verbal are meant to do that they're
meant to make being queer so dangerous that no one in their right mind would do
it in public and it's not just crazies on the Internet or whack job Congress
people driving at this either actual members of the United States Supreme Court
have floated the idea of repealing gay rights laws in America Clarence Thomas in
particular has been vocal about his intentions to roll back gay rights bluntly
stating that Lawrence V Texas the 2003 ruling that decriminalized gay sex in the
U.S and the 2015 ruling in oberger fell vs Hodges which said that there is a
right to same-sex marriage should be overturned as they were quote demonstrably
erroneous decisions foreign Thomas's call for a re-examination of these rulings
carries no weight in law and cannot compel his Supreme Court colleagues to
follow his lead the implication though is that conservative State legislatures
Should draft laws that conflict with Supreme Court precedent in the hopes that
the court would overturn its previous decisions which with the Roe v Wade
decision of 2022 wouldn't be out of the question so these wars that we had
ostensibly won which had at worse developed into cultural cold Wars seem to be
heating back up the U.S Congress did pass the right to Marriage Act in 2022
signed by President Biden but it's mostly toothless it wouldn't require states
to license same-sex marriages but it would require states to recognize same-sex
marriages performed in other states attorney Paul Smith said it's designed not
to mandate a given state to marry anyone they don't want to marry instead if you
found some place to get married everyone has to treat you as married that's less
of an intrusion on the sovereignty of states in other words the sovereignty of
states is more important than the Dignity of the people who live in them so this
all leads to a very uncomfortable question does our visibility only make us more
vulnerable especially when the government is only willing to pass halfway
measures of protection I think that maybe we've given the impression along the
way that we won't fight back against threats to us it used to be that when the
government refused to protect us or when it was even the government that was
doing harm to us we would mobilize and demonstrate our community took to the
streets to protest harmful legislation or violence against us we demonstrated
the strength of our numbers we demonstrated that our Humanity was not rooted in
our ability to passively endure in complacent silence the fight for our rights
was fruitless when fought from offices and boardrooms by gay lawyers who wore
suits it wasn't until we started shouting at the public that like anybody else
we have a point where enough is enough it's been said that Pride was a riot but
that's only half true before it was a parade and platform for overpriced
corporate sponsorships Pride was an organization that stood for personal rights
in defense and education Pride was first formed in LA in 1966 from the very
beginning they were considerably more radical than the gay rights groups that
existed prior to them in the 1960s and 50s before then gay rights groups were
more deferential to the ideas of straight people as opposed to the more
conservative strategy that was followed by Pride's predecessors the primary
objective of Pride was to engage in political action and protests that were as
boisterous and as loud as possible in order to confront the opposition to stand
up and make a point it was this kind of action that would write the how-to
manual for future groups like act up to force government action when compared to
other organizations Pride had a greater degree of success in rallying huge
numbers of people to Stage demonstrations against any group or individual who
denied members of the queer Community their equal rights or dignity but in 1968
the year before the famous Stonewall riots Pride was dissolved due to ever
increasing pressure from The Straits and even a number of gays in the community
to sit down shut up and be polite this be nice to our oppressors strategy led to
exponentially more arrests and attacks against queer people however one night in
New York City a group of gay men lesbians and trans women had had enough and
fought back lighting the flame of the Stonewall riots and the modern lgbtq
Rights Movement but today we as a community seem much more timid much more
willing to take a backhand to the face literally or metaphorically as long as it
doesn't make us look bad it only makes the bigots look bad right that's why
there's so few of them now and they have like zero political power can't get
anyone elected to save their lives and certainly don't tell bigoted rhetoric in
public and never confront anyone over their gender identity in a public bathroom
that's sarcasm by the way not to be alarmist but it does seem like these people
are only gaining political power there are right Wingers who label themselves
activists because they've convinced themselves that they often wait if not
wealthy are being persecuted people like that Republican staffer I mentioned
earlier whose name is Rachel bovard by the way claim that this political party
which is really an ideology not an identity is under threat of Destruction and
whether or not they're delusional enough to actually believe it their supporters
sure do they are gaining more and more power within the Republican party we used
to think the Tea Party caucus was crazy now they've disbanded because they
weren't crazy enough for these new ones and these are the people we're supposed
to negotiate with to be kind and empathetic with to compromise with and put on
our best behavior for because we must be polite to our oppressors because even
as they decry us denounce us insult us confront us question us harm us and
silence us it all becomes a discussion of their feelings doesn't it how dare we
silence them for trying to suppress us and oppress us we're so afraid of these
people turning around and calling us bullies that we become toothless what are
we gonna do start a hashtag on Twitter March on Washington or state capital for
a weekend and then go home we're certainly not going to fight for our rights and
Security in any way that will remind the population at large that bigotry is
never in season we used to do that but we haven't in a long long time we thought
our safety was secured the doors and windows to the house in which our rights
seemed so safe were locked up tight and so we could sleep soundly and move on
with our lives but we seemingly forgot that windows are only made of glass
through which the bigots could see us and then smash through when they got sick
of seeing us and take away our safety does that mean we should draw the curtains
and hide in the closets no hell no we used to have queer guard dogs that would
fight but most of them died in the 80s and 90s and others were put down because
some of us thought they were too much to handle the neighbors might be offended
by how loudly they barked but with the repeal of abortion rights and voting
rights in America our neighbors houses have now been broken into and our Windows
have been smashed so I think it's time we get some new guard dogs loud vicious
Unstoppable forces of protection that will scare the [ __ ] out of these bigots
and send them running home put a big rainbow colored sign on the front fence
beware the queers they bite back [Music] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music]
[Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music]
[Applause] [Music]