---
date: 2022-05-27
title: "How The Gays Stole Cinema"
parent: Tk9wh5rBmW0
status: Finished
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://vimeo.com/907706029"

contributors:
  transcription: "Yvestan (using Premier Pro Auto-Transcription)"
  formatting: $cite$tustin

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

[???]

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

{% assign timecode = "00:02" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

This video is brought to you by my patrons. If you'd like to support my channel and get access to extras like audio commentaries, a patron exclusive podcast and uncut videos, you can join by clicking the link in the description. 

</james>
</compare>

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I would like, if I may, to take you on a strange journey. Did you know that there were queer characters, and *not just* villains, in pre Hays Code Hollywood? (Meaning the long, long ago Hollywood, for the uninitiated.)

However, there was only a brief window of time between the end of the silent film era in 1929 and the institution of the morally restrictive Hays Code in 1934. For them to exist in any real form. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But as you'll know, if you've watched... *any* of my other videos, filmmakers manage to sneak in queerness despite the best efforts of the morally boring conservatives of the time. They just had to be sneaky about it.

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

They couldn't exactly show two men *kissing*, but they *inserted* their queer sensibilities into these productions. Sensibility that became *lovingly* known as Camp.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

<compare>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.wings %}>

Guy: "Ugh!" (Whipping off wig) "I'm a man."

Boat Driver: "Well, nobody's perfect."

(Guy looks at camera in surprise)

</clip>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "01:16" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The gays had always been drawn to the film industry and the divas who fed it. Though you can't make a video talking about *Mommie Dearest* without highlighting some of her more... *unflattering* qualities, Joan Crawford is indicative of this. 

As one of the only actresses to survive the transition from silent films to what were referred to as "the talkies" (Get it? because moving pictures or movies and then... they had a sound, so they were talking pictures...? talkies?), Joan Crawford probably became the archetype of the Hollywood movie star. And the gays *loved* her for it.

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Because she exemplified this strong femininity. She drew a massive fandom of gay men, which, to her credit, in an era when admitting gay people could even *exist*, would tank your career and even get you arrested, Joan openly supported the queer people who supported her.

Granted, when it comes to gays flocking to women who act as icons, some things never change. Joan, yes. Her rival, Bette Davis. Judy Garland, Katharine Hepburn, Mae West, and, well... *all* the other old school Hollywood actresses you've actually heard of. Ask Cher. The gays can keep people around. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I suppose in this era of mid-century queer discrimination, civic mistrust and institutional persecution, we needed a way to propagate our culture. Unlike other communities, queer ones are non hereditary. We are not *usually* born into them. Because even if gay people *did* manage to raise a child, there was no guarantee that the child would be queer itself. 

So film was an easy way to propagate the values of our community to future generations. Legends within the community often suffered a tragically short lifespan even before the AIDS epidemic.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "02:55" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Having Joan Crawford epitomized poise and independence on the silver screen, in spite of not being a straight white man, offered a method of cultural continuity for us. Probably in a similar way that ancient cultures used figures of myth to propagate a cultural identity to new generations of illiterate villagers. 

But how did gay people of the 20th century choose the myths that they did?There were no shortage of films out there. Of those films. Why did we gravitate towards such a select few? What was the criteria for holding these up as relics to pass down to baby queers? 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

With lesbians there was a bit of a different process: Writers (who were usually men) were so clueless about writing women that they often accidentally wrote two friends being *so close* that it crossed into Sapphic territory, for which, again, enter Joan Crawford.

</james>
<from></from>
{% assign timecode = "03:43" %}
<james {% include timecode %}>

But if that logic applied to straight men... why are any number of Westerns not held up by the gays? Because these cowboys often got *very* close and vulnerable with each other. Instead, we gravitated toward a very specific iteration of femininity in various specific films.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

<compare>
<credits {% include timecode %} class="opening">

\[Happy music, like something ripped from The Sims; tiny font]

> James Somerton presents

> Written by  
Nick Herrgott  
& James Somerton

> Executive Producers  
[21 patron names in two columns]

> Producers
[Patron names in columns: 19, 19, 19, and 14 names]

> Edited and Directed by  
James Somerton

> Whatever Happened  
To Good Taste?  
> How the gays used camp to steal Hollywood  
> and how the straights tried stealing it back  

</credits>
</compare>

## 1: All About Eve

{% assign timecode = "04:45" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

*All About Eve* is a perfect place to start. Like I said, not the first queer icon movie, but one of the first you may hear referenced. A drag queen may refer to someone as an "Eve Harrington", and you may not know what that means. But what they're doing is accusing someone of putting on a pleasant face while being a backstabbing, social climbing upstart who's using more established figures to launch their own reputation. (Kind of like a gold digger. But instead of money, they seek fame and recognition.)

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And she chooses to latch on to Margo Channing, played by *the* Betty Davis. Margot is the queen of the New York theater scene, and even in her forties is still the highest regarded stage actress in the city. Eve Harrington is a poor girl who attends every performance she can of Margo's current show. Karen Richards, Margo's best friend, and wife of the show's playwright, spies Eve on one of these nights and invites her to meet Margot in her dressing room.

</james>
<from></from>
{% assign timecode = "05:35" %}
<james {% include timecode %}>

Eve is introduced as an avid fan and captivates Margot with stories of her past of love, heartbreak, sorrow, and pure, unadulterated love for the theater. Margot brings Eve on as a kind of informal personal assistant, something Eve seems all too eager to do, waiting hand and foot on Margo's whims. 

And it's not hard for Eve to enchant almost everyone in Margo's inner circle. Karen, her husband Lloyd, and Margot's engaged-to-be-engaged boyfriend and director Bill Samson. As far as Broadway goes, this friend group is *royalty*. What a coincidence that the young and sweet and entirely unassuming Eve Harrington managed to elbow her way in. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The only one who thinks that the numbers aren't adding up is Margo's maid, Bertie Coonan, who's there to be a *good emotional support poor* and call Eve for being a fake bitch.

And soon Margot descends into a fit of assumed paranoia regarding the young Eve. She nearly breaks up with Bill. She alienates Lloyd, who specifically writes plays *for her*, and threatens her entire career. She's become convinced that Eve is trying to take her stardom away from her. And though it sounds paranoid, she's entirely correct.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "06:43" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And Eve's true motivations eventually become clear. When Eve does an interview, she says some particularly shady things directed at Margot. And so while Eve is playing her *Game of Thrones*, Karen begins to mend some of the tension between Margot and herself. Margot also finally accepts Bill's proposal. And the grown ups begin to get their shit together. 

Eve does keep her talons gripped in Karen's husband, Lloyd, though, who's one of the most highly regarded playwrights in New York City. She's after a starring role that was *written* for Margot, which she feels will be her ticket to stardom. All she needs to do is find a way to push Margot out of the role. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So as one does, Eve blackmails Karen to get her husband to steal the part away from Margot and give it to her. And when the film ends, Eve Harrington, the darling pariah... celebrates her Tony win for the part she stole from Margot. 

Now, exhausted in her condominium, she encounters a mild mannered young lady who absolutely idolizes her, who offers to wait on Eve hand and foot. And Eve, too caught up to notice that history is repeating itself right in front of her eyes, accepts her offer.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "07:53" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

*All About Eve* is considered one of the greatest films ever made. It bags six Academy Awards out of a total of fourteen nominations, a record it still holds to this day, including Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, and Screenplay. It's also the only film in history to get four women nominated for acting roles, including one of Davis's most *infamous* Oscar snubs.

For additional trivia, this is also one of Marilyn Monroe's first films. A very small role, granted, but she makes an impact. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

While there *are* comedic elements to the film (especially Margot's biting shade), this is a very highly regarded, dramatic film. And yet we can see elements of this plot being played out in modern farces that are so over the top that they can be considered *beyond* camp.

Hell, you might see a plotline like this showing up on a season of *Real Housewives*. But that isn't to say that this model of story doesn't turn heads, in a good way, even to this day: 2010's *Black Swan* also, more or less, followed the story of a young performer latching onto the success of an established star to catapult her own career.

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So it's not like the plot itself is tainted. But it does take a very steady hand to keep the format from descending into a catfight. And *All About Eve* is definitely not the only diva fight story out there. Especially if you want to swap an actress for goddess, there are any number of Greek plays and myths about goddesses destroying lives over petty disagreements. And are actresses not modern day goddesses worshiped at the altar of the tabloid rack? 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The gay appeal of *All About Eve* is likely a combination of a few things. Primarily the script, written by Joseph Mankiewicz, who wrote enough shade into the film to put Oscar Wilde to shame. Come to think of it, the film does share a number of very Wilden elements. On top of characters who spar with wit, there's a discourse on age and aging that leans toward an almost vilification of youth and those who venerate youth. 

But the film would be nothing without George Saunders, and Baxter, and of course, Betty Davis, to carry the film's demand for sharp minds. Davis herself had a very substantial gay following. A staunch ally in her private life, and at times even an outspoken one, referring to gays as her friends when confronting President Ronald Reagan about his administration's inaction during the AIDS crisis.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "10:00" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Davis herself was in no small part responsible for helping screen acting depart from its origins of theatrical acting. Whereas in the theater, an actor would *project* their acting to the back of the room, actions were *grand* and *bold*, and lines were delivered *clearly* and *methodically*. 

But Davis was more natural. And for this reason, whenever Davis was in a film, it was like she was acting in an entirely different movie from everyone else. She was one of the first actors to really dive into presenting a character with the kind of "naturalism" you couldn't really project on stage. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Which nothing exemplifies this more than acting opposite Joan Crawford in 1962's' *Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?* probably one of the most foundational films... of modern gay culture. 

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

## 2: Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?

{% assign timecode = "10:51" %}
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Parodies of *this* have been done over and over again, to the point where you hear the name and you hear the premise...? And you likely think it's this hagsploitation comedic camp romp, that may compare to a telenovela.

Well, you'd be partially right, because it *did* kick off the Hagsploitation trend that carried Crawford through her late career in Hollywood. Hagsploitation was a particular subset of horror that was built on Hollywood's *disdain* for older women. Where women of a certain age are portrayed as horrifying monsters simply because of their birthday. But this genre in subversive fashion accidentally gave these women some of the best roles of their later careers.

</james>
<from></from>
{% assign timecode = "11:28" %}
<james {% include timecode %}>

But as the progenitor of her Hagsploitation, *Whatever Happened To Baby Jane* is so much more than the genre it created. It tells the story of Baby Jane Hudson, played again by Betty Davis, and Blanche Hudson, played by the infamous Joan Crawford. (More on her later.) Formally famous sisters living in their twilight years. 

The film has two sequences which we can see as prologues. In the first, we see Baby Jane at the center of a stage performing a song and dance show for a riveted crowd. Her father, her manager and songwriter, prefers to redirect attention from Jane to himself, as indicated later on in the film, where we see that all of the songs he wrote for Jane were about *her daddy*. Off stage, Blanche longs for her moment in the spotlight.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "12:10" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

In the second prologue, the women are *both* making their way through Hollywood. A producer remarks that Jane Hudson can't act to save her life, but they're stuck casting her. 

See, Blanche is their golden starlet, a talented actress who can sell tickets like none other. And she's got it in her contract that for every film she does, the studio must also cast Jane in another.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "12:31" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

We then see a nighttime scene, where presumably one of the Hudson girls tries to murder the other by crushing her between a car and the driveway gate. The audience is led to believe that it was a resentful Jane who drove into Blanche and left her paraplegic and bed-ridden for the rest of her life. 

The film itself follows the progression of these sisters in their later life. Blanche's old films have gone on to television, and Jane is none too pleased with her particular lot in life, taking care of her sister, hand and foot, every time Blanche hits a bloodcurdling buzzer.

</james>
<from></from>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.baby_jane %}>

[Blanche repeatedly hitting a buzzer, Jane crying.]

</clip>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "13:09" %}
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The plot revolves around Jane learning that Blanche is trying to sell their house, with no clear indication of what Jane will do when presumably left homeless. As a severely alcoholic six year old, she plans to take up her old act again and tour with her old songs for income of her own, and independence from Blanche. It goes... about as well as you would assume.

As Blanche gets closer and closer to selling the house, Jane begins to spiral deeper... depicted almost as a slasher serial killer tormenting a wheelchair-bound sister who can do *nothing* to escape her situation. Jane... is *terrifying*. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

About halfway through the film, Jane's portrayal begins to shift. Jane continuously expects people to know who she is and is a little put off when people don't recognize her.

</james>
<from></from>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.baby_jane %}>

Jane: "Maybe you remember me and Baby Jane Hudson."

Clerk: (nodding, confused) "Oh, uh... sure."

</clip>
</compare>
{% assign timecode = "13:58" %}
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

At first, this feeds into her portrayal as a monster, this arrogant, fame-obsessed petty woman who lauds her control over Blanche as the *only* thing that makes her feel powerful. We see Jane, and we think that she's out of her mind. That she's entirely convinced that it's possible to relive her girlhood. 

But as the film goes on... we get the feeling that she *is* legitimately out of her mind. And what we saw as arrogance is now depicted as a delusional mental state. She does not want to merely rekindle her youth. She seems entirely unaware that it even ended. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Having spent the entire film with her ghoulish white face and heart shaped beauty mark, we see it later on... smudged. We, the audience, finally see that this was not a directorial decision, but a component of Jane's character. Every morning she has been putting on this white face of makeup and drawing on a heart onto her cheek because she is locked in this state of existence and does not seem able to escape. This is, after all, the same makeup she would have worn under the bright lights of a stage. 

In fact, she begins to regress, acting younger and younger. But there's one problem that just won't let her be young.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

<compare>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.baby_jane %}>

[Buzzer buzzing annoyingly.]

Jane: (Dropping what she's doing) "Oh, shut up!!"

</clip>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "15:17" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Just like Jane, there's a flip for Blanche, too. Early on, we see Jane's accusations that Blanche is out to stop Jane from living her life, and we agree with Blanche's denial of that because... Jane seems to be the villain. And Blanche, by contrast, is sweet and patient with everyone she interacts with. 

But more and more, we see Blanche extending what control she has over Jane. The house, after all, is in her name. She controls the money. She controls Jane's drinking. And in a very nonchalant way, *does* like to remind Jane of that. And Blanche does, in her own way, begin to admit that maybe Jane's feelings of isolation at Blanche's insistence, *aren't*... completely unfounded. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

What seems like a woman afraid for her life and pleading with her captor can alternately be seen as a woman who's pulling out all the stops to placate someone she's been manipulating for years.

See, as Jane descends further and further into a childlike delusion, she begins to lose sight of the consequences of her actions. As she torments Blanche, Blanche begins to remind Jane of her dependance and her attempts to escape become bolder. Jane responds in kind, detaining her, ripping the buzzer from the wall, firing Blanche's maid, tying Blanche to her bed for days on end with no food, and then murdering the kind maid when she finds Blanche tied up.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "16:38" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

When Jane is found out by the pianist she hired for her planned upcoming career resurgence, Jane is thrown into a full meltdown. For reasons unknown, she goes to Blanche and desperately pulls her into the car to go to the beach. Jane had reminisced about the beach, that she fondly remembers rehearsing there, where people would circle around to watch her dancing.

Jane has a wonderful day, running around barefoot, playing catch with... other children, and joyfully getting ice cream for her and her sister while forgetting to pay. All the while, dehydrated, malnourished, and immobile Blanche cooks in the sun. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Blanche does not have much time left and urges Jane to hear a final confession. Jane childishly holds her hands to her ears, refusing to hear what Blanche has to say. What she knows is true. And what she had to reject for the last 30 years to survive. 

That it was Blanche behind the wheel of the car that night. And that before the car hit Jane, she drunkenly stumbled out of the way. The accident left Blanche crippled and she crawled out from behind the wheel to make it seem like it was Jane who had tried to kill her.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "17:48" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And then we see the film in a different light. This was not about a jealous sister who resented the other's fame and success to the point of committing torture. This was about a woman who had been gaslit *so severely* that her entire psyche had collapsed. Jane was robbed of her childhood by her father and robbed of her womanhood by her sister, all the while, everyone told her that *she* was the monster behind everything. And so she turned herself into that monster. 

Retroactively, we learn that Jane's feelings and paranoias were valid all along and that Blanche never really quit acting after all. Acting the part of the victim. Blanche had spent 30 years exploiting a fabricated guilt complex to make a loyal servant out of Jane. And as soon as she had a more pliable, willing servant, she was all too ready to completely discard her sister. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Jane, though a monster nevertheless, was a monster that Blanche had created, not entirely unlike us queer folk who are gaslit into believing we're the broken ones in a society too broken to accept us. Whose parents abandoned us, leaving us feeling unloved and unknown.

But on the California beach where Jane sits beside Blanche and remarks to her abuser:

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

<compare>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.baby_jane %}>

You mean... all this time we could have been friends...?

</clip>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "19:11" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And then the audience is left with this visceral discomfort for the next few hours.

Now, like with *All About Eve*, it's clear to see why it would appeal to femme-heavy queer circles. It's got all the kind of meaty, feminine things the drag queens love: outrageous personalities, women using duplicity as a weapon, old icons clinging on to past glory, pathos in excess -- which isn't a half bad definition of camp, actually. Pathos in excess. 

Finding gravitas in the mundane, making an aristocracy out of the destitute, isolating this house from the rest of the world. All the politics of culture, art, and society matter less than the ability to navigate the politics of this enclosure. Because the fact of the matter is that both of these women are suffering due to their father.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "19:54" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Despite having a relatively small role in the film itself, he left both girls with emotional scars that would heavily influence their downfall. Because while he did manage Jane's career in her youth, he also facilitated Blanche's career in Hollywood. And while he bought the house the girls live in, there is *some* question as to whether he bought it with the money he made off of Jane... or off of Blanche. Make no mistake, he *did* make the money off of his girls.

And something that is true to queer circles: it is so tempting to climb to the top of the heap at the bottom of the barrel, even if it means stepping on other people below you to do it. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But aside from plot and themes, the film's primary draw was being able to finally watch Joan Crawford and Bette Davis act against each other. Fans flocked to it like it was the boxing match of the century. The drama around this film hovered like a miasma. When in reality, the rivalry between Crawford and Davis was played up even at the time. Before *Baby Jane*, their "feud" amounted to basically fighting for the same roles for the past ten years. That was it. 

And when it comes to the making of drama, yes, there was a lot. In fact, as per the camp definition of making much ado about nothing, the behind the scenes antics rivaled what you'd watch in a movie. Ranging from all manner of petty things the women did to piss each other off. The studio, seeing the dailies come in, seemed to encourage this animosity among their actresses. Producers were worried that if Crawford and Davis buried the hatchet during filming, that their character's loathing of each other wouldn't be as palpable.

So, like in the film, two women were pitted against each other by men so that men could profit off of them. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But to me, the most interesting thing about the making of the film is that, yes, Joan Crawford *really did* pitch this idea to Warner Brothers and essentially single handedly pulled this project together. Maybe foolishly, she didn't go after a producer credit.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "21:44" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And honestly, if this was the kind of quality she could assemble, she could have been a *trailblazer* for women on the production end of Hollywood. Instead, Crawford was obsessed with being a movie star. Specifically, she wanted another Oscar, or at least a nomination. And she really thought that she could act the *straight* character opposite the woman losing her mind and get an Oscar nomination for being in a wheelchair for half the movie. She really thought that that was going to be enough. 

And no disrespect: she did have an Oscar by then. However, as a typified movie star, Joan Crawford really only ever played Joan Crawford in whatever movie she was in. That's what movie stars are for. They're cast, because their personal brand will fit in a given movie. 


</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And that's not to say that movie stars aren't as good or valuable as character actors. Would you rather be Julia Roberts or Tilda Swinton? It's not a contest. It's just a different game. 

That said, Davis *did* have a habit of elevating actors she was in the same room as. In instances like *All About Eve*, you can see the cast beginning to adopt more of Davis's signature style as the film goes on and become much more natural. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Perhaps to the benefit of *Whatever Happened to Baby Jane*, Joan Crawford wasn't a good enough actress to act through her natural narcissism. Crawford making sure that she was picture perfect for each shot, that the camera caught all her good angles. Her emphasis on beauty in spite of being *a shut in* who hadn't seen the sun for 20 years... All of that added an extra layer of fraudulence to the character. Joan's natural demea.nor bled through and added to Blanche's fraudulent duplicity. 

This is the value of a movie star. Without intending to, and perhaps without realizing it, Joan elevated an otherwise benign role. And it's because of all these nuances and subtleties that Hagsploitation became such a hit genre in the sixties. There was a clamor to cash in on the trope. *Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?*, with a budget of just under $1 million, grossed $10 million at the box office, which even by today's standards would be considered an indie success. But in the 1960s, this was a cash cow. 

</james>
<from></from>
<james {% include timecode %}>

However, as a progenitor, it employed a massive amount of talent in front of and behind the camera. Filmmakers who wanted to innovate to bring out the thematic elements of the story. It's often the curse of repetition that people will say, "I want to do that thing" without realizing what it was that made "that thing" so impactful. 

There's a reason *Halloween* spearheaded the slasher movie and was never superseded by the man with the knife copycats. Hagsploitation was constructed around old women being shady and even crazy. Though *Whatever Happened to Baby Jane* was a character study on the cognitive dissonance of long term gaslighting, the complex relationships of sisters, and constructing a narrative where truth and illusion are difficult to discern.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "24:31" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

It all takes a very steady hand to pull that off without dipping into farce. Because you can get all the cheap thrills you need just by having women being naughty. There does need to be that element of pathos to really give something legs though, because it is in the pathos that we, the audience, can see ourselves reflected in. While there are few of us who are Blanche and/or Jane Hudsons, We can see the elements of their relationship and apply it to our own lives. And that's what happened to Baby Jane. 

Of course, it seems to be a pattern that we're inherently drawn to films which depict established icons serving up something new. Old dogs learning new tricks only adds to their legend.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "25:09" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And from here, we turn from Bette Davis and Joan Crawford... and look toward another gay icon: Elizabeth Taylor.

...I'm sure you've heard of her.

</james>
<from></from>
<clip {% include citation for=page.cite.clips.idk %}>

Taylor: "What! A! Dum-pph!"

</clip>
</compare>

## 3: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?

{% assign timecode = "25:32" %}

<!-- TODO -->

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The same year that what ever happened to Baby Jane premiered, the World of Theater was shook up by the premiere of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, which went on to win Tonys for best play and in the acting categories. It was also selected to win a Pulitzer Prize, though the committee struck down that decision as the play had too much profanity.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "25:51" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The same year. Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf was first stage. The film Cleopatra also hit theaters. Another entry in Elizabeth Taylor's oeuvre, though, unfortunately, Cleopatra was a disaster. We remember it now as this kind of iconic symbol of Hollywood opulence. Taylor's personal wardrobe budget was nearly $200,000 in 1960. That's about $2 million today. Taylor herself was offered the part after a very lengthy casting process and only reluctantly agreed to do it.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "26:22" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

She highball the studio for a contract she thought Fox would never go for, and broke a record for being the first actress to be paid $1 million for a single Hollywood movie. There's conflicting accounts, but she may have been the first actor period to get $1,000,000 salary for a movie. Alternately, it may have been Marlon Brando for Mutiny on the Bounty, but, you know, he sucked a dick or two.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "26:42" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So he's part of the club. The film took nearly ten years to finish and was initially pitched as a modest $2 million historical fiction. However, production was launched during the peak of Hollywood spectacle. So the studio's take on it was that this was a fabulous time to go big or go home. That $2 million quickly got inflated to $31 million.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "27:03" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Anyway, artistic sensibilities shifted in the 1960s. Audiences turned away from raw spectacle and instead preferred more personal stories like The Graduate, Easy Rider, Bonnie and Clyde, and whatever happened to Baby Jane? Cleopatra's budget was so inflated and audiences were so disinterested in spectacle that it nearly tanked 20th Century Fox. They were only saved by the Rocky Horror Picture Show.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "27:28" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

More Camp. Look it up. It's true. And getting to the point the movie was at the time said to be the end of Elizabeth Taylor's career. Fast forward to a few short years later when a screen adaptation of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf was announced and Taylor was due to play the lead. Critics immediately scoffed. They felt that Taylor's movie Star brand clashed with the content of the play and that Taylor herself was too young to convincingly play a middle aged woman.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "27:52" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But no, Taylor really did get on set and eat that chicken wing on camera. She relentlessly committed to Martha. It was uncanny. It's worth noting that actors, even in films today, do not normally eat on camera. There's usually a cut before or after giving an actor a chance to spit out what's in their mouth or pretend to chew while holding a sandwich with a bite taken out of it.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "28:13" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

A problem arises if you need to do ten takes of an actor eating pizza.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:28:18:00 - 00:28:26:18
Speaker 2
What happened to you? Do I look fat? Liz? I had to eat four slices of pizza on stage. Each performance generates 32 pieces of pizza a week. No, that can't be right.

{% assign timecode = "28:26" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The story follows George and Martha, which you may hear a gay describe a given couple as a regular George and Martha. Not a flattering remark. George is an associate professor, and despite his clear intellect and how long he's taught at the university and the fact that Martha is the daughter of the university president, he is locked in this lowly position for reasons not yet know.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "28:49" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Upon returning home from a faculty function late at night, Martha tells George, tired and half drunk, that she's invited a young couple over to have a drink. George reluctantly agrees even before the couple arrives. George and Martha do nothing but needle each other to the point of verbal, emotional and physical abuse. It's not particularly clear who is abusing who.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "29:11" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Though it does seem that Martha is the instigator. When the couple arrives, Nick, a young professor of biology and his wife, Honey. George and Martha don't stop needling each other. But they begin to be more subtle about it. They verbally express their enjoyment of playing games, but it's not clear what those games are. As George and Martha load up the guests with drinks.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "29:31" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Their polite masks begin to crack with a full argument breaking out when Martha mentions their six year old son to honey again for reasons unknown. Nick admits to George that he intends to sleep his way up the university ladder, saying that he wouldn't mind. Starting with Martha. To George's face, which George just kind of takes in stride, which somehow makes this scene even more homo erotic than it already was.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "29:56" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

As the group gets drunker and looser, Nick gets flirty with everybody about his wife as part of their game. Martha reveals that the reason George can't get a promotion is because he admitted to the university president that he spent years in a mental institution for accidentally killing his parents and that he would have been blacklisted from all of academia if it wasn't for Martha's insistence.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "30:16" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

For which George attacks her. After a fatalistic argument with George, Martha takes Nick and they have wild, drunken sex, for which it's implied that Nick actually had a tough time keeping it up once again, leading to some speculation about who Nick had actually intended to sleep with to climb the ladder and as a coup de gras in the game, George kills his and Martha's own child twitch.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "30:39" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The audience and the houseguests are confused. See, what happened is that the child never existed. George and Martha could not conceive for unclear reasons, and George permitted Martha to make a fantasy child. However, due to George's shaky reputation, a rule of this game was that nobody could ever know about this imaginary child. A rule Martha broke when, in her drunken enthusiasm she told Honey about him, thereby giving George permission as per the rules of the game to kill him in a car accident.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "31:08" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Straight people and people think Wanda has a weird situation with their kids. The young couple heads home now realizing what a tangled mess they've gotten themselves into by choosing an exciting career in academia. A field where people have too much intellectual energy without enough to actually do. And George and Martha resolved to stay together because they don't have anything else but each other.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "31:27" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But like All About Eve and whatever happened to Baby Jane? There is more to this than Betty Davis. Joan Crawford and Elizabeth Taylor dragging their gay fans into movie seats to watch this film at gunpoint about damaged heterosexuals. On top of the fact that this is 2 hours of shade and a fabulous older woman getting a studly young man in the sack, there's some back brained gay appeal here.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "31:48" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Primarily takes on a critique of social values, namely the performativity of social expectations. Both George and Martha are so disillusioned with their lives that they prefer to develop actual illusions to existence to the extent where they themselves are unaware of where the lines are drawn. There's also a whole lot to say about who may hold the real power in this relationship.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "32:13" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

To the outside. It's a wonder why they even chose to be together. Nick certainly doesn't seem to understand it at first and questions why Martha even chooses to keep protecting George's career with that bargaining chip. It would seem she carries the ultimatum to him. She clearly hates George and would do fine with another man. But that's where he's wrong.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:32:32:03 - 00:32:49:23
Speaker 2
George Lucas out somewhere out there in the dark, who is good to me and my revile? Who can keep learning the games we play as quickly as I can change, who can make me happy. And I do not wish to be happy.

{% assign timecode = "32:50" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Martha may serve as a protection for George's career, but George, as someone who understands the need to escape a traumatic reality, may maybe the only person who would allow Martha's illusions to flourish. They have this tumultuous codependency that they both hate, and yet that they both need to function. Power dynamics for them are like a game of hungry, hungry hippos with infinite marbles.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "33:15" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

They're both in it to win it, even if winning's impossible. Even if the trophy is a few seconds of emotional superiority, it's worth getting dragged through the mud. And so because their lives are too mundane for their taste. They develop this mutually accepted environment of games. What their game seemed to be, as I said, are a temporary emotional victory, but also something deeper.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "33:39" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Martha is a powerful woman, and given the social climate of the 1960s, she may be betting correctly when she says she won't be able to find another relationship where she can have the kind of control that she does. But she also doesn't want some sympathetic just bend over for her. She wants an equal footing of power in a romantic dynamic.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "33:58" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And we do see her when she is affectionate with George, at least in Taylor's performance. But Taylor's take on Martha is that this is a woman who easily becomes bored with a clearly defined power dynamic. She would rather have her toxic battle with George than take the risk of looking for something else that would be more healthy. The gay appeal here is that whatever happened to Virginia Woolf?

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "34:21" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Who's afraid of Baby Jane? There's something about Baby Gazer drawn to the eternal struggle of George and Martha because it typifies a lot of the straight experiences that we've seen. It raises the question without answering it, Are the streets okay? Because we see them in these relationships, these marriages, these arrangements. We see them fight and scuffle and rush into things and we see them go through all because I mean, it's not really clear.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "34:50" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

If you hate doing something. Why do you do it? We see this weird muscle memory that straight people have around milestones. What your life should look like by a certain age, what age you have to be to get married, to buy your first house, to have kids. There's no clear rulebook that says this. And yet to this day, there are psychological expectations which, depending upon region, have specific dates, and the states all know them.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "35:15" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

It's like Gaye's knowing the lyrics to Lady Gaga. Qaiser Nobody asked them. Nobody said they had to know these things. And yet somehow they all do. Yet we tell ourselves that we are free. George and Martha represent what we fear. The heterosexual urge to twist your own arm to be able to fit a nuclear family ideal, to make concessions of yourself and your own identity for the sake of fitting this appearance.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "35:39" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And meanwhile, telling everyone around you that this is just how it's meant to be. Inventing toxic games to torment your spouse, constantly pushing boundaries, redefining what the boundaries are and making up fake rules is red herrings all to fill that intellectual need to feel powerful. And you take it out on your spouse because what are they going to do?

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "36:04" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Break the codependency completely destroy the both of you. Marriage offers no recourse. Your bank accounts are together. You're afraid of changing because you built your life around this other person. You're stuck. That's where you live. That's where you exist. There's way too much emotional baggage wrapped up in the other to just leave. So why not flex the power?

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "36:27" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

You can and see what? Broken boundaries just too far. What is divorce, if not the safe word for suburban families when it comes to George and Martha, there's no way to win the game. But if playing the game is pushing the other one to their limit and either forcing them to redefine their limit or give up, then giving up is losing.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "36:47" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And like the previous films discussed, it's very clear to see how a story like this could translate into an almost slapstick farce. As I said about steady hands, there was an incredible amount of talent in this production, and there is a reason why out of the Library of Gay camp, which is held up on a pedestal, these older entries approach their subject matter with much more seriousness than you would get out of a John Waters movie.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "37:11" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Though this list is not comprehensive, these belong to a group of progenitors which present these themes as realities. When these movies do well and resonate with audiences, there are going to be a horde of people who want to recreate these themes and emotions. And many of these imitation films were forgotten. Many simply couldn't go as hard. They were unremarkable or interchangeable and thus forgettable.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "37:36" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But some took the nuance and decided that if they couldn't match Elizabeth Taylor, then they would exceed her. And thus, the gaze redefined what has now become known as camp and camp in turn redefined us. Now we're getting into it. Susan Sontag, in her essay Notes on Camp, often cited as the quintessential document on camp culture remarks, an association between gaze and camp.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "38:10" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And as she was writing in the 1960s, she was highlighting a very retroactive depiction from her upbringing. Baby Jane had only just come out when this paper was published. This indicates that gay attraction to overwrought and badly depicted feminine archetypes was well solidified long before 1981, when the infamous Mommie Dearest premiered the purported true story of growing up with movie star Joan Crawford as a mother through the process of imitation.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "38:38" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Baby Jane, Cleopatra. Martha Eve Harrington and Crawford herself are imitated here to the point where in Faye Dunaway is mind playing Joan Crawford. This is a perfectly nuanced depiction of Hollywood's archetypal movie star. John Waters described Mommie Dearest as the first drag queen role played by a woman. And he's not wrong, but it seems to be completely by accident.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "38:59" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Films that are accidental or camp or kind of rare without clear intent. Failed camp either goes so big that it looks cheap and we disconnect or they don't go big enough. Either way, we don't make a point of remembering those movies. So when one does manage to hit the right buttons, we hold on to it for dear life.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "39:17" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So enter Mommie Dearest, first published as a book by Christina Crawford in 1978, describing her torturous relationship with her mother, Joan, one year after Joan's death in 1977. The story is about a daughter who is struggling to reconcile her love for an abusive parent, which would have made a great movie in no time at all. Studios snatched up the rights to the story, and Christina herself wrote a script.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "39:42" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

When Faye Dunaway was cast in the lead role, writing on her Oscar for 1977 Network. The studio and Faye herself wanted to restructure the script to center around Crawford with Faye's husband, who she managed to make a producer on the film trying to sanitize Joan and Christina's husband being accused of trying to turn Joan into a monster. So what Joan did we get?

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "40:04" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The film opens with Dunaway's Crawford, Hollywood Queen, musing about how, despite her success, global allure, she feels like there's just something missing from her life. Yes, her career is in a bit of a slump, but she isn't as concerned about that because she thinks that just means that now is a great time to become a mother. Unable to bear children, she begins to suggest the option of adoption to her then boyfriend and Hollywood lawyer Greg Savage, who helps her pull the strings she needs to pull to have an adoption agency hand her a baby.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "40:35" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

This scene is played entirely straight, by the way. This visual pulls Crawford to the center of attention like a Riefenstahl esque monarch or idol. Once again, unnecessary pathos and all this unnecessary pathos feeds into this lofty visual language of Jones perfection channeled through Dunaway. We're only 5 minutes in. And no, it does not slow down from here. The first act of the film explores the strange power dynamic between Joan and her young daughter, Christina.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "41:05" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

This is where most of the iconic scenes of the movie come from, because this is where Joan is depicted at her most unhinged. Now, how can one of the most powerful actresses in Hollywood's history have a struggle for power with a child? Well, that's something that critics slammed the script for. There isn't really any textual reason for why Joan is such a terror to her family.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "41:27" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

There's no reason why Joan is triggered at the sight of a wire hanger or why Christopher has to wear a harness to bed, which feeds into the insanity of this role. There are all of these compulsions, but no explanation as to why the surface level of the analysis is out to seemingly use Joan to subvert the expectations of a Hollywood star, someone for whom the public laud as the ideal of perfection and womanhood, though in reality is a monster in her private life.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "41:57" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

When cameras are on, she's Joan Crawford. When they're off. She's a woman who is desperately trying to keep everyone in line so that she can be Joan Crawford. Already the gays are on board for that. We love exposes on fakeness. It feels like gossip with substance, guilt free relating to our personal lives. A lot of queer people in the community come from families that an outsider would say are ideal.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "42:21" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But for those of us who have to live with our parents homophobic attitudes, that perfection is a little different. Behind closed doors, parents often let nasty things slip when they're away from polite company, and that's doubly complicated because it means nobody believes you. Especially nowadays when bigotry isn't quite so in vogue. Parents still do and say homophobic and transphobic shit, but they do get a little gas lady about it.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "42:47" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Dare I say shady? I've even heard of situations, especially from trans people, where their own therapists will try convincing them that they're making up their parents transphobia. However, just because there's no surface reading doesn't mean that explanations aren't inferred, which is mostly on Faye Dunaway for sucking up every drop of attention away from any deeper analysis. Look a little deeper into Joan's parenting and Christina's early life, and especially Joan's biographical context.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "43:14" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And you guessed it, a commentary about youth and beauty in multiple instances in Mommie Dearest. Whenever it seems that Christina is coming of age as a lady, Joan sees that as competition from living out a fantasy and the spotlight taking a few tricks from Joan's own book on how to flirt with men. Christina is a threat to Joan's reign.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "43:36" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Christina is both a rival, a symbol of her fading youth, a child, a miniature version of Joan within whom she can place all her expectations and an opportunity to exercise her authority. Christina must be better than Joan, But also, Joan must use Christina to prove that she's still at the top of her game. She both pushes Christina beyond what is reasonable to expect of a little girl and also smugly revels in Christina's failures, often resorting to humiliating Christina as a punishment for either not being perfect or for seemingly encroaching on Joan's reign.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:44:11:03 - 00:44:29:07
Speaker 2
What are you doing to justify what I'm doing? Help me, Josh. I know you're looking for me to be quiet. You're always rummaging through my drawers, trying to find a way to make the look at you while you always looking at yourself in the mirror. Why are you doing that?

{% assign timecode = "44:29" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Tony Jones is so fixated on perfection that she can't handle it when things don't quite fall into place. Following several poor performing films, MGM releases Joan from her contract. This compiles with a string of failed romances and triggers a cascade of Joan's greatest fears. Her beauty, something she felt was her primary asset, is fading. But what terrifies her is that she does not have the talent to make up for it.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "44:55" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

In her defense, yes, MGM was shafting her as a human being. She was aging, but they continued to cast her in roles as if she was the Joan Crawford that she was 15 years prior. Instead of, I don't know, letting her play more mature roles, they just cut loose because she wasn't ageless. Joan Crawford, it is implied, held herself up to perfection because she accurately assumed that a single slip up would have her thrown to the dogs.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "45:25" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And when that fear was validated, we can expect some erratic behavior, which gives us one of the most iconic scenes in camp history. So Hollywood is an absurd place. It's why movies about Hollywood generally don't click with general audiences because it's a place like no other. So you're already in absurd territory. But instead of mitigating the absurdity and explaining the kind of anxieties and pressure that exist in this place, there's Joan down on the ground hacking away at roses in a gorgeous beaded gown and that line delivery.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:45:59:18 - 00:46:03:23
Speaker 2
Tina, bring me the.

{% assign timecode = "46:03" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Ax where each word is punctuated with an entirely distinct and separate emotion. It's a complete sensory overload. And honestly, though the quote gets thrown around, fans of the scene are missing two of the best parts. First, the fact that they actually committed to a wide shot of Fey hacking away at that orange tree in that gown. Second, Jones says, bring me the ax.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "46:33" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The ax, the ax, not bring me an ax. Bring me the ax in the literal syntactic text of the movie. We can gauge that this is a regular occurrence at the Crawford household because Christina didn't flinch and she knew exactly which ax to get and where to get it. I feel as if the movie had done even the slightest amount of work to bring out the aforementioned subtext.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "47:03" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

You could pull off this exact scene as a harrowing self-destruction of Joan's psyche. Reading into it, Joan feels her perfect garden must match her internalized feeling of inadequacy. If MGM tells her that she's not perfect, then there's no point in having anything perfect around. Why should something be more perfect than her? If being perfect was her only value, it could be a really gripping scene.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "47:26" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

The problem is that without adequate buildup or actual exploration of Joan's emotions, instead, with Dunaway opting to depict these emotions as mood swings, this scene comes out of nowhere. It's also worth mentioning that this film doesn't really follow a narrative. We go from Joan celebrating her long awaited Oscar win, and the.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:47:45:10 - 00:47:47:05
Speaker 2
Winner is Joan.

{% assign timecode = "47:47" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Crawford Directly and to.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:47:49:14 - 00:47:51:23
Speaker 2
No Wire. Hi, guys.

{% assign timecode = "47:53" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Which again, could be legitimately terrifying scene if there was any kind of narrative consequential ism. That said, when it comes to abusive households, there's usually this soft reset button at the end of the episode where there's an unspoken agreement to leave it in the past, at least when it involves younger children, which in and of itself is a really eerie and unsettling concept.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "48:15" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Though Mommie Dearest does absolutely nothing to establish this precedence with spoken or visual language, and no, the abuse does not end with Joan shipping Christina off to boarding school, which it is implied Joan was doing because she observed her daughter beginning to experiment with flirting. Not on her watch. When Christina is caught kissing a boy at the school.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "48:33" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

She's reprimanded by the administration, but Joan insists that she be expelled for some reason and instead pulls Christina out of the school. Now, as it turned out, beyond just kissing boys. Christina ended up quite enjoying her time away from her mother at the boarding school. And given that the discipline obsessed Joan originally intended private school to be a punishment.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "48:52" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Enjoying a punishment is also something that will not happen on her watch, leading to another iconic scene.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

00:49:00:05 - 00:49:04:07
Speaker 2
Joan. Barbara, please. Please. Barbara.

{% assign timecode = "49:04" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Bringing Christina home as she has an interview scheduled. Joan, coyly, if not proudly, remarks that Christina was expelled after telling Christina not to talk about the expulsion. I can't think of a single parent who would gloat about their child's expulsion. But to Joan, it's almost like a victory. A failure for a rival is a victory for her. Christina points out to the reporter that she was not, in fact expelled, to which Joan throws a fit over being accused of lying.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "49:32" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Even though she was lying.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "49:35" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Why do you deliberately defy me? Why did you tell her I got expelled? Because you did get expelled. That is a lie.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "49:45" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

When Christina calls her out, Joan just goes right on and slaps her in front of the reporter and then blames her for making her embarrass herself in front of the reporter.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "49:54" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

You. You deliberately embarrass me in front of a reporter.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "50:01" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Joan begins to spiral aimlessly. With such and such parental insults of her gratitude. But it seems like Christina's done with this song and dance and asks why Joan bothered to adopt her. If Joan didn't seem to want anything to do with Christina.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "50:15" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Why did you adopt me? Maybe I did it for a little extra publicity.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "50:21" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Tensions rise and.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "50:23" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Why can't you treat me like I would be treated by a stranger on the street? Because I am not one of your fans.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "50:42" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And now we're getting into the territory of Christina's accounts that can be backed up by fact. Fact number one is that, yes, Joan really did replace Christina on a soap opera that Christina was cast in. Joan in her sixties takes the role of a 28 year old woman while Christina is recovering from a benign ovarian tumor. Number two is another iconic scene.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:04" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Joan Crawford was on the board of directors for PepsiCo via her husband. The company was a nothing upstart to compete with the behemoth that was Coca Cola. Joan was brought on as a brand ambassador and basically made the company into what it was. Joan married the CEO and the board of directors did try to force her out after his death.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:22" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

In the film, this encounter is depicted with Joan screaming into the boardroom, famously saying, Don't.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:29" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

With me.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:30" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Fellows. And though this is a famous line from the film, it's not the line that was lifted from the secretary's notes at the meeting. But Joan did say to the directors.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:38" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I fought worse monsters than you by years in Hollywood. I know how to win the hard way.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "51:43" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Ironically, this is one of dunaway's more understated lines in the entire film. This meeting, in reality, was much more cordial than Dunaway delivered. Why did it need to get turned up to an 11 year old? Why not? That's why rounding off the film is the reading of Joan Crawford's will with Christina and Christopher. When it comes to what Joan left them.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "52:02" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Joan writes that they will receive nothing for reasons which are well known to them, which was the literal reading of the will that happened. That's the last thing Christopher and Christina ever heard from their mother. And when asked, apparently neither of them know what those reasons were. There are some suggestions that Joan wrote them out of the will because she heard Christina was already writing Mommie Dearest while Joan was alive.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "52:31" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But that doesn't explain why she nixed Christopher. The film doesn't even mention Joan's younger two children, who she adopted just about the same time that Christina went off to boarding school. Funny timing that Now, as with all great camp movies, half of the fun is the gossip and the making of Mommie Dearest is no exception. As mentioned, Mommie Dearest was a celebrity expos.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "52:53" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Christina's account is a pained, tormented struggle between loving her mother and recalling good memories of Joan, but also living through some very traumatic abuse and behavior. Though the way Hollywood figures talk about it, especially those who are close to Joan, even Bette Davis herself. Christina makes Joan out to be a demon that she wasn't.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:14" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Who's one of the worst people you know in Hollywood that I worked with or that you wouldn't want to work with again if you know you don't have $1 million. Faye Dunaway.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:22" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But the book is much tamer, especially if your frame of reference is the movie. And honestly, a lot of the vitriol that gets slung at Christina is, well, I never saw Joan beat her children.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:32" %}
Speaker 4
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I never saw this happen.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:34" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Well, I never saw Harvey Weinstein rape anybody, which you'd think in this post me to believe victim society that excuse wouldn't fly. But Christina, to this day has haters.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:43" %}
Speaker 4
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I think Christine was very, very envious of Joan Crawford and her public and her popularity and her beauty.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "53:52" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Hollywood is said to be a small town and the vitriol directed at Christina may simply be them protecting one of their own. Christina does make a point of specifically blaming Hollywood for crafting Joan's narcissism before the fall of the studio system. The studios themselves would mold their stars into fitting specific personality ideals to put on airs not only for cameras, but for fans in private.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "54:16" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

It was rare that you'd get a star like Davis or Katharine Hepburn, who didn't bother with the facade. This is apparent in a documentary called Bright Lights, starring Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds. May they rest in peace. Reynolds, while being interviewed, still had her signature Debbie Reynolds charm. However, the documentary crew kept the cameras rolling when Carey took her aside from around the corner.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "54:39" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Debbie's voice is much weaker, more vulnerable, even though she was a woman in her eighties. Debbie Reynolds was the mask she had to wear for the public. Luckily, she did have a supportive family with whom she didn't have to wear it. Christina's take seems to be that Jones simply wasn't able to take that mask off at all and resorted to drastic behavior when the porcelain started to crack.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "55:03" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

But with all hatred toward the story and toward Christina, it does boggle my mind that Hollywood was so horny to get this movie made as soon as the book came out. You couldn't find anyone who had anything good to say about it. Faye Dunaway herself agreed to play the role as long as it was more respectful to Joan's memory than the book.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "55:22" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Though Christina's book was obviously an exploitation book, the first one of its kind. My task was to portray a woman, a full woman, who she was in all her facets, not just one. I tried to illuminate who this woman was, but it was more than just about being angry. It was about trying to examine and explore the forces that undermined her.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "55:47" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

I don't think Faye and I watched the same movie. Christina actually did not feel that Dunaway's performance accurately depicted her mother, specifically claiming that Dunaway's depiction of Joan was far more monstrous than she ever experienced.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "55:58" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Is that anywhere near the way Joan Crawford actually acted? Only the makeup.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "56:04" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Faye Dunaway specifically went out of her way to manipulate the script, the director and producers to humanize Joan, all the while lambasting the book tabloid drivel only for the author of that drivel to decry the performance for depicting a monster. It also didn't help that Dunaway was already kind of a diva once again. Ironically, Joan Crawford was quoted saying.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "56:27" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Of all the actresses to me. Only Faye Dunaway has the talent and the class and the courage it takes to make a real star. Dunaway later blamed Mommie Dearest for hurting her career, and given that she was a bit of a hot ticket actress before the eighties, she was forced into roles in smaller films for the rest of her life.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "56:47" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And on one hand, you may say it's because of her performance, but plenty of actors have had bad roles, maybe nothing so monumental as this, but Faye was a bit of a hassle, you see. On top of being a prima donna in general, she allegedly terrorized the set of Mommie Dearest. For starters, she refused to drop out of character during production.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "57:06" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So on top of delivering that on camera, the crew and cast had to live with that for weeks, wrote Tanya Alda, who played Joan's assistant in the film, wrote a behind the scenes memoir about the filming experience. She wrote People despised Faye because she was rude to people. Everyone was on pins and needles when she worked and relaxed when she didn't.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "57:29" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

To name a few things, Faye allegedly manipulated the director to rob actors of their screen. Time to pull it to herself. She also insisted that people on set needed to turn away from her while she was performing because she didn't want an audience regarding her method acting and will avoid a discussion about what method acting really is and how a lot of actors misuse the term.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "57:51" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Dunaway had the usual nonsense to say, but with an extra twist. If your mind is on a woman who is dead and you're trying to find out who she was and do right by her, you do feel a presence. I felt it at home at night. Sometimes it wasn't pleasant. I felt Joan was not at rest. So I think what happened is that Faye was so engaged with the memory of Joan that she may have spurred a vindictive streak against Christina.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "58:20" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And so she kind of took out all that bottled up rage on the effigy of Christina. Which is why you got all this aggression, I think. While there was an initial wave of critics who hailed her performance, it didn't take long for the public perception to swing the other way. Going down as one of the best bad performances of all time, a serious actress like Faye Dunaway did not cotton to that idea.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "58:44" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

She blamed the director for not railing her back. She blamed the editors and the producers for taking her depiction of a window into a tormented soul and making it camp. She blamed Christina and her husband. She blamed Christina's book. And worst of all, she blamed her audience for not taking away her intended interpretation. Though she has come around to the unforeseen fandom of the film but still doesn't quite get what they see in it.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "59:12" %}

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Because make no mistake, there is a fandom around this moving picture. Little did Dunaway know she had opened the floodgates to a whole fandom that had only until then existed in burlesque shows a fandom that, upon the movie's release, would hang Christina Crawford in effigy. Mommie Dearest legitimized a whole group of audiences and creators who were going to do what Dunaway did, but do it on purpose, with or without the ghost of Joan Crawford.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "59:55" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And whatever happened to Baby Jane at the weekend saying, Make the best of their range? Almost anything. Whatever happened to Baby Jane? Whatever happened to Baby Jane when she'd walk down the street? Although worthy of my mother feet, there was no one to spoil. Whatever happened to Baby Jane? I see your own movies on TV, and they are always a thrill to me.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:00:42" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

My daddy says I could be just like her. Oh, I wish. I wish, I wish. I wish I word. Whatever happened to Baby Jane? George? My golden hair. I must never be so unfair. No one cared what really happened to Baby Jane.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:01:11" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Here's what happened to Baby Jane. She didn't grow up. She just grew old. She was waiting for that big day that her daddy said would come. That's what happened to Baby Jane.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:01:29" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

Here's what happened to Baby Jane. She thought the world was at her feet. That is what her daddy said was true. But her daddy didn't always know. Your daddy doesn't always know.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:01:48" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

So for the past 40 years, her life has been nothing but tears. Her daddy said something great once to me. And you. Hold it, hold it, hold it, hold it. And that's what happened to Baby Jane. Do a small smile over their golden years. Everything may be so unfair now there's no one left to care about. What happened to Baby Jane.

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:02:19" %}
Speaker 2
<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

And that's what happened to Jane. What really happened to Jane? And that's what happened to Jane. What really happened to Jane?

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>


