---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/e9vdpcetk5w"

date: 2023-01-24
title: The Queer Joy of Everything Everywhere All At Once
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "The Wonderful Queer Villainy of 'Everything Everywhere All At Once' (Working Title)"
  - "The Queer Nihilism of Joy"
topics: !!seq
  - Everything Everywhere All At Once
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyQcCzV0lGE" # Reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - feb26-unprivate

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

Experience the queer joy in the multiverse of Everything Everywhere All At Once

PATREON: [link]

00:00 Introduction  
01:40 Part One  
11:56 Part Two  
19:49 Part Three  

#everythingeverywhereallatonce #Oscars #academyawards

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

this video is brought to you by our patrons for as little as a dollar a month
you can gain Early Access to new videos see behind the scenes content listen to
our Patron exclusive podcast the patreon and much more for 2023 we're developing
a lot of projects based on Patron goals including videos about the Sandman
revolutionary girl Lieutenant Neon Genesis Evangelion and even a complete queer
history series spanning the time from ancient Mesopotamia to modern day sign up
today at the link in the description to help us in producing educational queer
content everyone can watch hey everyone we're going to do a simple video this
time no big fancy sets or multiple cameras because I just want to talk about the
now officially Best Picture Oscar nominated movie everything everywhere all at
once maybe the best movie of 2022 so let's do a normal video essay for once and
talk about something that's just so so good [Music] there was never any
indication that everything everywhere all at once was going to feature a
prominent queer character in fact from promotional material nobody could really
figure out what the movie was going to be about at all this movie dropped just
as the Multiverse hype was hitting its cusp bull Marvel and DC had been hyping
their prospective upcoming Multiverse movies throughout 2020 and 2021 Multiverse
of Madness and Flashpoint had been announced since forever ago even by then and
the Loki series also poked at this idea other media like content on the CW had
toyed with this for a while there was enough Multiverse Buzz that critics
leading up to everything everywhere's release were hailing it as the best
Multiverse movie probably a good thing that it dropped sooner rather than later
because Multiverse of Madness had less to do with multiverses and more to do
with demonizing women who have undergone debilitating trauma made by men who
openly admitted to having no familiarity with the preceding media and while
claiming to want to recreate the source material clearly missed the point of
said Source material and Flashpoint is yeah without knowing too much about the
plot the movie was promoted on martial arts set pieces Whimsical Vibes and
Michelle yo in general but what we got was so much more we're gonna get into
spoilers here but if you do press on without having seen the movie it's
definitely worth a watch afterwards because there's so much more that I just
cannot get into here everything everywhere all at once is about Evelyn Quan Wang
a Chinese immigrant who owns a laundromat in America who left China with her
soon to be fiance because her parents didn't approve of the relationship Evelyn
is stressed overwhelmed and trying to take everything on her shoulders on top of
her father gong gong moving into their tiny apartment above the laundromat
Evelyn is struggling to connect with her daughter Joy Joy is an out lesbian who
is begging her mother to acknowledge her girlfriend to gong gong and in general
Evelyn deflects these requests claiming that gong gong is very old-fashioned and
that she is just too busy to deal with the Fallout though it is implied that
Evelyn isn't entirely comfortable with it herself and brushes this off as a
quirk not seeing the emotional toll that it's taking on Joy Evelyn frequently
gets lost in thoughts and Daydreams about what her life could have been if only
she had made certain decisions differently namely if she hadn't left China to be
with her present husband Waymond who by the way has filed for divorce she just
doesn't know it yet like most people who would rather disassociate from the
reality of their life Evelyn likes to dip her toes into different hobbies and
she uses the laundromat to write off these expenses as side businesses which
does not go over well with their caseworker from the IRS Deidra who gives them a
few hours for a second chance to clear up the confusion on their tax returns
though Evelyn is certain it won't make any difference she is however confronted
by her husband who takes on a strange personality shift Waymond claims that he
is now Alpha Waymond from the alpha verse in his home Universe Evelyn is a
brilliant scientist who developed verse jumping a technology that can allow a
person to access alternate versions of themselves in different universes each
time someone makes a decision an alternate universe branches off to accommodate
all outcomes of said decision this verse jumping allows someone to gain access
to skills and talents that they had gained in other universes he warns Evelyn
that a powerful verse jumper is after her name jobu tapaki after making her
first verse jump Evelyn is murdered by jobu only to learn that it is her
daughter Joy in the alpha verse Evelyn has worked with joy to test verse jumping
she pushed Joy beyond the safety limits and split Joy's Consciousness apart Joy
now exists in all possible universes at once flipping between different versions
of herself and swapping between different elements of different universes with
this power she seeks to conquer all universes for reasons yet unknown after
being exposed to a large number of her own Universal variants Evelyn's father is
revealed to be the leader of the resistance against joy as Evelyn fights against
both jobu tupaki and also gong's forces her mind splinters exposing her to a
wide range of alternate realities that she inhabits beginning to develop the
same abilities as jobu she can draw from a multitude of different versions of
herself even in universes not accessible to verse jumping technology she's off
the damn map with each one she experiences she begins to see every other
universe as better than the one she currently inhabits she's a movie star in the
Kung Fu Evelyn Universe she's a renowned singer in the stabs eyes out
accidentally Universe she's a spinning sign woman and one Universe which maybe
not a step up but she's got moves by accident she stumbles upon the hot dog
finger Universe where she's a lesbian of course I mean if you've got hot dog
fingers why not and she's a Master Chef in the rakakuna universe and there are
also variations of each of these through her confrontations with jobu across the
variations of the Multiverse it becomes clear that jobu doesn't want to kill her
mother while she seems ambivalent toward killing anyone else keep in mind jobu
and or joy is a being who exists in all versions of herself simultaneously she
sees no point in batting an eye over anything she does because everyone she
kills in one universe is still alive in another for all their differences Joy
can think of no other person who is as disappointed with their life as her
mother and while Joy was broken-hearted that her own mother wouldn't stand up
for her jobu is only annoyed I'm so sorry you're still hung up on the fact that
I like girls she is annoyed that her mother has chosen to close off herself to a
single way of thinking specifically and indicates that her homophobia is a
symptom not the root of Evelyn's problems when jobu shows Evelyn her plans for
the Multiverse Evelyn tries to defend her actions saying that she just doesn't
want to upset her father this late in life this different generation you don't
have to hide behind him anymore jobu's Grand evil plan is that she is
constructing an everything bagel with everything on it and she means everything
sesame seeds poppy seeds airplanes lava lamps Art Deco hope supernovas Saturday
morning cartoons sadness and upon gazing at her great work jobu realized that in
the context of everything nothing really mattered it was all just there but
there was no meaning to anything adding more and more on to the bagel she just
realized that less and less really had any inherent value she reveals that she
was never seeking out Evelyn to kill her she was seeking out a version of Evelyn
who could understand Joy is an emotionally intelligent lady and based on
Stephanie Jesus performance it's clear to me that she can put her mother's
actions and beliefs in the context of who her mother is what Evelyn has dealt
with in her life and especially how Evelyn feels about it but in another way
that just makes Joy even more bitter she sees how Evelyn is living her life and
how she is doing nothing to change it if anything had any value surely Evelyn
would put in a little bit more effort to change and so this is why Joy feels
that maybe a version of her mother could be made to understand exactly what this
everything bagel means instead overwhelmed Evelyn demands to be returned to her
normal life where she's hosting a Chinese New Year's party at her laundromat she
wants nothing to do with this verse jumping stuff anymore even if she gets to be
an actress or a Kung Fu Master it's just a fantasy but joy is there to remind
her that she can never unexperience the mundanity of knowing just how sad her
life is and all those universes are actually worse than a fantasy it's visceral
proof that she made the wrong decisions in her life and that there's nothing she
can do to change her circumstances in the laundromat Universe her life is
falling apart due to decisions she cannot unmake might as well let it happen get
over it and just stop making decisions before she makes it even worse for
herself problem is Evelyn's mind is still fractured and she herself is like jobu
simultaneously existing in a myriad of realities she cannot Escape these
confrontations of what her life is the pressure sends Evelyn on a nosedive
smashing a window in the laundromat signing the divorce papers getting smashed
drunk and getting disowned by her father alternate reality Evelyn's aren't doing
much better either and it isn't until she sees weyman trying to pull her back
from the brink that she comes around all her varians begin to clean up their
messes but Evelyn's mind splinters even further and she is exposed to the full
potential of everything she could have been some worse some better some even
animated but in the context of everything the multitude of infinite
possibilities and identities Evelyn realizes that not one single action she does
in any one single Universe actually means anything there is no Ripple of
consequentialism there is no great Peril to the world if she undertakes one
solitary decision because there are an infinite range of versions of herself
where the decision was never available in the first place Evelyn sees that
nothing means anything but instead of jobu's conclusion Evelyn understands that
this just means she has the freedom to choose how she acts if nothing means
anything and that means nothing has any real Cosmic consequences either our
ultimate choice is that we choose the consequences that matter to us just as
laundromat Evelyn chose to live with the consequences of leaving her family for
Waymond she begins to see what she got out of that which was missing from other
universes and Evelyn chooses Joy both feeling and the person because her Joy
means more to her than anything she could have in all the other universes
combined queerness as it manifests in this movie is not the driving force of the
plot Joy's queerness is a wedge between her and Evelyn but the wedge was put
there by her mother the plot frames Evelyn as the flawed character whose
narrative direction is to overcome her flaws and like I said homophobia was
symptomatic of her inability to grow and change simply because she did not
believe it was possible for her to change the onus of choice was not on Joy to
be straight but for Evelyn to choose to accept it or not Evelyn herself is
alluded to be bisexual as she is married to her IRS caseworker in the hot dog
fingers Universe though it is unclear if this also applies to laundromat Evelyn
perhaps the message here is that we have the potential to be all things the more
we realize that the more we move toward love and acceptance of others that our
belief that a choice is finite only ever locks us into certain ways of thinking
in a movie entirely about choice queerness is not a part of the discussion it's
not a choice Joy's queerness factors into this film only as far as generates
conflict between mother and daughter Joy sexuality really only factors into the
plot as a straw that breaks the camel's back even though this is what we see
characters reference any number of events that strain the relationship between
Evelyn and joy in the past beyond the textual references to Joy's listless lack
of Direction there is a reading of this story where the universe jumping doesn't
happen instead it's just a fantasy concocted by Evelyn or a metaphor to describe
events in Evelyn's life Alpha Waymond describes Alpha Evelyn's treatment of joy
in the alpha verse saw her potential so he pushed her Beyond her limit we can
extrapolate that Evelyn in the laundromat Universe did the same to Joy in her
own way as Joy's mind fractured and merged with every other version of herself
she could not find a single world where she was living up to her mother's
expectations it makes sense like many parents who had once been considered
gifted children themselves they see in their children everything that they could
not be by proxy of their children they want to see their own potential realized
in universes where she remained in China for whatever reason Evelyn has only
seen in prestigious careers as a singer her father has close at hand and this is
the only Universe where we see him Express fondness towards her while the
particulars may be different character beats and personalities remain consistent
Across the Universe alternate realities do a great deal to foil a character
against themselves bearing in mind sequences cut between each other sync up with
events figurative actions in one Universe are literal actions in another
figurative actions in one Universe are literal actions in another based on the
dizzying editing flipping between universes it's difficult to keep track of
which universe is which and which one is the one with the narrative through line
we ought to be following The Narrative description of Multiverse fill in a whole
lot of plot holes the universe where Evelyn assaults diadra may seem to be the
main Universe however this is the same universe where Joy manifests or suicide
bagel and the universe we may assume to be the real one because it's more
grounded and handles the emotional conflict between joy and Evelyn is actually a
universe in which Joy sent Evelyn to prove a point this seems to carry on the
Divergent reality from Evelyn not punching Deidra the universe we end with is
not the universe we began with but is the universe we end with even a universe
we had seen before based on how the film clips between universes the entire
final sequence of the movie may be disconnected from the plot of the others in
fact when it comes to every single other Universe with the exception of maybe
the hot dog finger lesbian Universe we do not entirely know how they resolve
everything is kind of left dangling narratively we the audience are shown the
emotional Beats how each alternate universe ties into character development and
others that have more of a through line thematically the audience is being
informed that what happens is less important than how these characters and by
extension the audience handle their interpersonal relations and self-worth who
someone is matters more than what someone does but what's most important is how
someone feels the end of the film may be an entirely different Universe
altogether one where Evelyn does have her [ __ ] together and where she does
have a loving relationship with Waymond where gong gong is a more supportive
father and less of a prick and where she is a more supportive and accepting
mother to her gay child Becky however what is not present in the film though
perhaps this is suggested is the idea the choices absolutely can split universes
apart but they may also be able to converge realities too that conflict within
the self may lead to opposing decisions that splinter the cosmos but also that
if one truly understands that choices ultimately do not matter the no choice
needs to be made and universes do not need to branch finding peace with one's
current existence healing and mending relationships can also heal the separation
between the universes Joyce stands on a precipice where she has learned that in
the context of not only one Cosmos but many objects and events in reality do not
matter that is if all things matter the same there is no singular thing that
stands out but she has existed in a family environment where her feelings don't
matter so why would anything else keeping in mind that her catalog of what's on
the everything bagel does not include people Evelyn's realization as
aforementioned was indeed that nothing mattered but she came to understand this
as a liberating Factor neither her taxes her father's approval the laundromat
nor the fact that her husband wants to divorce her mattered and with all of
these external pressures melted away she saw the root of her misery the amount
of conflict she was pulling into her life because she was over focused on things
that didn't matter the receipt with the black permanent markers circling the
unspecified dollar amount just like Joe budapaki's everything bagel it is a
storm of bustle but the center was empty the value of the receipt was
meaningless contrasted against wayman's googly eyes his playful Whimsy his
empathy these are things we often dismiss as meaningless but at their core
aren't these the things that make life worth living apparently Everything full
of actual nothing and apparently nothing full of actual everything the
difference is perspective the inability to distinguish which fits into which
category is indicative of a society that has gone spiritually bankrupt and we
have been for some time all the things we are told are important by society's
latent methods of conditioning us are the completely wrong things that we should
be focusing on instead where value lies is the ability to see value in everyone
and everything and that if putting googly eyes on everything is necessary to
help us pack Bond then maybe that's necessary even if it's ridiculous and also
perhaps we should Place more value on ridiculousness because the more seriously
we take everything the more the unserious things like feelings begin to get left
behind if the stress and importance of life is placed on stuffy things like
business success stability what value do Evelyn's dreams and hobbies have what
do Joy's queer feelings even matter when the Family Laundromat is being audited
foreign we are reminded that choices diverge universes but joy seems to be a
lesbian in every Universe regardless of her or her mother's choices this is
inescapable the only choice is how individuals react to it and perhaps as a
society we need to begin evaluating what really is or is not a choice while some
may report that in some universes Evelyn is queer we must also remind ourselves
that she belongs to one of the many generations where it was the social
expectation for bisexual people especially women to force themselves into
heterosexual thinking over the years many bisexual people have had to dismiss
their same gender attractions because society never really let them explore it
again the choices and the reaction to this information the decision whether to
or not accept this about oneself can cause drastic shifts in how one lose their
life in our evolving world of queerness one of the most significant discussions
we are having is how to navigate bigotry at home at times queer commentators
will sometimes make sweeping generalizations and statements about the improving
condition of queer acceptance within their own families and I do this from time
to time myself however even in America and what Global Society misguidedly
refers to as the West there is still a widespread pressure for families to
produce heterosexual children and especially when it comes to trans teenagers
and even early trans identifying children there seems to be a whole lot of
questions about how to raise them there's an overall confusion arising around
the intersection between sexuality gender and sex even parents who are otherwise
on board with trans acceptance can be squeamish about the idea of their child
transitioning cynically I may suggest that in the rush for widespread acceptance
we never really described what acceptance looked like and now we as teenagers
young adults and adults are struggling with how to redirect our language
regarding how we are treated by those closest to us mere tolerance it turns out
can be quite toxic but among people for whom tolerance was a struggle asking for
something more can feel like asking too much in the film's opening as much as
Evelyn is tolerant of Joyce sexuality she certainly seems to resent that she has
to be the best she can offer is passive ignorance why put in the effort when the
choice to give one's attention to the black hole that is the family business is
right there this is the trauma of queer tolerance where we see our family making
an effort but we also see what that effort amounts to we see all the other
things that are more important than trying to care some of us see the hierarchy
of value and we see that our feelings and personal dignity are fairly low on the
checklist some of us begin to see that our family only really cared about us as
an idea and that maintaining the idea of us is a whole lot more important than
validating who we actually are queer estrangement exists for this reason and is
quite common probably taking over from queer disownment the pendulum has swung
the other way and many of us simply can't reconcile our relations with family
it's nothing so trivial as parents just don't understand it is rooted in parents
refusing to change their understanding and having lived with them for our entire
lives we see how much they are capable of and we see that their capability seems
to end with changing their minds about us when our personhood diverges from the
expectation of what we should be we really begin to see how much we mean to
these people who have meant the world to us and we watch as the language of
Tolerance leads them to believe that their efforts are enough and we internalize
our emptiness as in gratitude we can either exist in their lives feeling guilty
for wishing for more or we can put distance between us and our family there's
nothing you or anyone can do to change someone's mind once it's made up after a
while it gets overwhelming all you can do is control your own feelings and your
own decisions and sometimes it is easier to cut and run because others may not
have the capacity to understand the difference between their choices and who you
are and Evelyn escaped this by realizing that nothing mattered just got tired of
pessimistic cynicism time to get wired I'm liberating nihilism if gender doesn't
matter what do any of these reservations and feelings and Hang-Ups matter if
nothing matters neither social expectations family conditioning polite
appearances then who cares who does what as long as nobody's hurting anybody
including themselves shouldn't avoiding that kind of pain be the objective and
if that is the objective as many say it is why aren't we building a world that
is focused on connection emotions fulfillment why are we still obsessing over
expectations and vaguely defined parameters of success if nothing else matters
what does matter is how you feel about others and how you feel about yourself in
a world where everything is fluid and flexible and maybe does or does not
actually exist your feelings are the only things that you can guarantee to be
true truly true and if the structure of the world is composed of our memories
then the goodness or evil of the world is predicated on your past choices and
whether or not they are choices that you are proud of or that you regret and the
thing about pride is that there is no real qualification for that you can choose
to qualify your self-worth based on external factors comparing yourself to
others or expectations imposed on you but for all that nothing else matters you
and your feelings are the only things you can be certain of you can choose your
own expectations and you can choose to meet them or not you can choose to see
the hole in the center of the bagel as emptiness where you can choose to see it
as freedom you can look at the googly eyes as a ridiculous waste of time or you
can choose to understand that someone is trying to lift the burden of the world
off your shoulders but you cannot choose not to exist and you cannot choose for
others to exist in a different way for all that we choose we owe it to everyone
else to let them choose for themselves so be who you are be who you want to be
if you feel like you're too old for that now or you've made too many choices
pulling you away from what you really want you're wrong it's never too early or
too late to be the best version of yourself because the best version of yourself
isn't living in an alternate universe they're already a part of you waiting for
you to choose Joy [Music] foreign foreign [Music] thank you [Music] [Music]
foreign [Music] [Music] foreign [Music] foreign [Music] foreign [Music] [Music]
foreign [Music]