---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/ezirfau3mua"

date: 2022-11-05
title: The Harmful Drive for Queer Perfection
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blJ-Z1A3Ixw" # Reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - feb26-unprivate

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

Why is it that, for queer people, perfection is a necessity instead of an option?

PATREON: [link]

00:00 Introduction  
03:50 Chapter 1  
12:00 Chapter 2  
18:55 Chapter 3  
31:27 Chapter 4  
40:29 Chapter 5  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

one of the cornerstones that our society is constructed around is success for
all that it is an abstract concept we certainly push our entire lives to meet it
and yet has there ever been anything so coveted that is so vaguely defined what
is success what does success mean and what does it mean to be successful and
most importantly how do I get some of it it may seem self-evident at first just
you know be successful and you know you've got it when you've got a nice house a
nice car a good job but are you really successful if someone has better stuff
than you if success is a gauge of who's doing the best then we can only say that
one person is really successful the power for Success needs to be low enough to
be attainable but high enough that it can hover over your head like a carrot on
a fishing pole go on little donkey go to school for accounting and forget all
about music production the latter has a small chance of Mega success whereas the
former is a more moderate success but is almost guaranteed and you know not
everyone can be the next Lady Gaga maybe that idea of success is a bit too steep
maybe it's okay to settle for you know district manager but can you really say
that you're successful if you have to settle maybe success is relative to what
is available to you but then again what excuse do you have for patting yourself
on the back for getting that management promotion when Janelle Monae was born in
Kansas City to a maid and a truck driver among queer people there is a market
push for a kind of success because it is not a success that is recognized by the
masses it's a quiet success that may go uncredited in a person's lifetime for
the longest time queer people had to live in the closet so in many ways success
was denied to them if they didn't have the stomach for starting a heteroalien
family of their own open queer people were shut out from society and yet still
we persisted we still managed to become some of the greatest artists filmmakers
writers musicians and King makers the world has ever seen so why do queer people
have this seemingly innate Drive to exemplify perfection if you've been close to
queer creators you'll know what I'm talking about there's a need to push
boundaries break molds and go above and beyond what everyone else in their field
is doing were show-offs because we have to be so why do we feel like we have to
be why isn't good enough good enough when that's perfectly fine for 90 of the
population who wants to be good enough when you can be perfect [Music] Black
Swan is a 2010 Darren Aronofsky film starring Natalie Portman which skyrocketed
her to the status of one of the generation's greatest actresses she'd come a
long way from Star Wars and Mars Attacks this also is probably Darren
aronofsky's signature film in spite of it bearing a striking similarity to the
Japanese animated film perfect blue both in content and aesthetic would have
been easy enough to say yeah I saw perfect blue and really wanted to do my own
take on it but with a New York ballet troop but there was a rigamaru for a long
time where Aronofsky denied having even ever seen it because ego I guess the
primary separation between the two pictures is black Swan's focus on camera work
and Natalie Portman's performance Black Swan lost the best picture Academy Award
to The King's Speech I would have been more than comfortable if it had gone to
either Black Swan or The Social Network that year but instead I had to cringe my
way through another important period piece imagery and themes from Black Swan
remain media relevant even over a decade later it's likely that unlike even The
Social Network Black Swan will persist as a generation defining film for the
Hollywood Vault because certainly nobody really remembers The King's Speech and
aside from Portman's home run performance as walking panic attack Nina the Prima
ballerina the ongoing reverence for the film suggests there is far more to it
how does this film speak to the people who continue to hold on to it Nina is the
daughter of a single mother and former ballet dancer whose career had to get
tucked away to raise her daughter it's unclear if Nina's excellence in dance is
something she wanted or if it's something her mother pushed her into Nina is
over parented and locked in a state of Perpetual girlhood we do have an
indication that Nina's sexuality is at least fluid her sexual interest in
Jacques seems to be more about proving a point to him and her sexual interest in
Lily could be more of an act of rebellion I swear there's an entire Ace or
pansexual paper that you could write about the implicit sexuality of Nina I'm
inclined to say that her queerness is not indicative of the plot but her
uncomfortable sexual attraction and or sexual indifference to others and herself
is underlying the whole film The Girl is confused Nina also likely lives with
undiagnosed psychosis nowhere in the film is this explicitly stated though the
audience is given this impression through hallucinations and gaps in her
perception she consistently sees her face on other girls who look similar to her
which given that this is a New York ballet troupe is almost everyone in her
immediate circle she possesses a number of psychological ticks when Under
Pressure she scratches and picks at her skin somehow picking off a hangnail is
one of the most unsettling moments of body Horror in cinema history which is
part of why this film struck so hard peeling back a hangnail and accidentally
ripping off your finger is something I'm sure we've all been afraid of at some
point and if you haven't I hope you're enjoying your mental health her ballet
troop is lagging in audience attendance and in order to cycle more butts into
seats The Troop director Jacques decides to cycle out their former Prima
ballerina Beth to Mark the reinvigoration of the troop season he is staging a
reimagined and streamlined performance of Swan Lake Nina is selected to take
Beth's position after a questionable audition process sussing some of the bite
out of the timid sheltered girl Jacques struggles to translate that onto stage
Nina's meticulous obsession with structure and factory-made Poise he feels
blocks her from truly embodying the raw and seductive Passion of the Black Swan
the story of the ballet follows Prince Siegfried who is given his father's
blessing to go on one last Bachelor stag Bender before having to select a
candidate for betrothal boys right while on a hunting trip with his friends he
encounters a glorious Swan though just as he takes aim the sun drops below the
Horizon and the swan transforms into a beautiful woman she tells him that she is
Princess Odette who angered the wicked Sorcerer rothbard And was cursed to live
her daylight hours as a swan and that only true love could break this curse the
two dance and talk all night and quickly begin to feel a budding Romance but
before Siegfried could confess his feelings odette's swantaraj finds her and
whisks her away from what they feel could be the dangerous false promise of
affection Siegfried returns to his castle and demands his servants return to the
lake to secure the swan for upon Nightfall he shall give his promises to her his
parents naturally hesitant call upon a number of other ladies regardless and all
the night is spent dancing and celebrating but when The Swan Princess arrives
All Eyes fall upon her this version of Odette favors black and not only seduces
Siegfried but enchants the entire court and it is not until Siegfried offers her
his hand in marriage and the whole of nobility offers their blessing that she
reveals herself to be Odelay the daughter of rothbart and his student in sorcery
Siegfried rushes to Odette whose heart is broken knowing how easy it was to
avert his gaze from her there are several endings to Swan Lake most of them are
tragic but with varying degrees yes you get the one where Siegfried renews his
affections for Odette and their love overpowers rothbart's magic but Tchaikovsky
had no hand in that most endings revolve around Odette taking her own life as
with the ballets ending in Black Swan sometimes one or both of the men die
sometimes Odette is forced to live as a swan forever sometimes her death breaks
the spell and she chooses to leave Siegfried behind the key feature of the
ballet is the performance of both the Swan Queen and the Black Swan two very
different roles often Danced by the same dancer and how a dancer portrays either
character can make a significant difference to how the audience feels about the
production dual roles like these were not often used on stage and if it wasn't
done right it could come across as very gimmicky Black Swan draws many parallels
to the Tchaikovsky ballet but various elements are subverted and there is a
question of which character is which is Jacques the Gallant Prince Siegfried
meant to rescue Nina from her sheltered life or is he the devious rothbart who
turns a princess into a swan out of pure spite while it may seem apparent that
co-star Mila Kunis's character Lily is the Black Swan Nina's journey is for
herself to become the Black Swan and there is a suggestion that Lily is not as
devious as Nina May perceive her is Nina a Swan Queen transforming into the
Black Swan or is she a Black Swan merely masquerading as a Swan Queen the film
calls to attention Nina's quest for Perfection and exactly what that means well
it's no secret that she may be the best technical dancer in the troupe she lacks
the Finesse and freedom that the director is looking for but shouldn't this
itself qualify as Perfection if her movement and grace are so archetypal it
wouldn't look as good if it came out of a factory how can you criticize someone
for being too good what isn't explicitly called to attention in the film is the
pragmatic side the business side of dance because art and culture or not these
shows need to make money at least to break even because these performances are
heavily subsidized by Municipal cultural initiatives but there is still the ego
of drawing in a crowd can we say that the bulk of the audience needed to make
these shows a success would actively understand the differences between Nina and
Lily's portrayal of the Black Swan some of the audience would naturally the
dancers would also but the vast majority of show goers would not understand the
Nuance that would go into a different portrayal is Jacques degree of scrutiny
that necessary it's not a shock to extrapolate that a major theme of this film
is opening a discourse about dance in general ballet being particularly toxic
the reason why dancers really only have a career into their late 20s is because
the human body dissolves into a yarn ball of pain after forcing your muscles to
move like this women especially develop degenerative foot problems and sometimes
will simply stop growing toenails due to the demand on Dancing On Point which
men can rarely do the psychology of dance is also incredibly destructive Eating
Disorders being among the least severe consequences if you are cast as a swan a
director will treat you like an animal favoritism is given toward the stars and
as with Nina the director's favor is not always a boon and Black Swan does poke
at the culture of sexual abuse and coercion in the industry as well it is in
question whether Jacques is using his position to leverage sexual favors out of
hundreds of beautiful girls who will do anything for the part alternately he may
be earnestly employing unorthodox and slightly unethical techniques to suss the
most out of his dancers but what is clear is that what Jacques wants out of Nina
is everything she could possibly have to give the individual is second compared
to what she can afford to the show The Troop and most importantly his reputation
it's not in question that Jacques is manipulative and emotionally abusive but
for girls who have dedicated their lives and bodies to ballet what are they
going to do get another job as demonstrated by Nina's mother having a baby is a
career killer what other value do these girls have if not to devote their entire
existence to Excellence and just how far will they be pushed to meet those
demands what do they have to be to even get noticed in the first place what does
Perfection really mean what needs to be sacrificed for Perfection why is
perfection important to Nina and most importantly why is perfection the bare
minimum requirement for her Nina finds herself in a state of existence where if
she's not the best then there's just no point to her this is absolutely fostered
in part by her mother whose simultaneous greatest pride and deepest fear is that
Nina will surpass her potential if her mother was going to sacrifice her career
for Nina something she is regularly reminded of the Nina Needs to make that
worth it and naturally this is doubled down by the aforementioned work
environment and yet to us gays we love Black Swan by the way to us gays we are
drawn to this movie Beyond just standing Natalie Portman and Beyond just the
magnetic draw to tragic yet fabulous women there's a question about why we would
feel such a kindred sense of belonging with a movie about how abusive the dance
industry is what drives Nina's quest for Perfection it's something that can
easily be dismissed as a compulsion due to her clear untreated mental health
issues but the not so Secret Message of Black Swan is that the environment of
dance is so toxic that the Perfection is a matter of survival if Perfection is
not the goal if you treat this as a nine-to-five job if your life health and
whole being are not dedicated to not only meeting expectations but blasting them
out of the water then what are you even doing here there are hundreds of other
girls who can tow the line what makes you so special granted in this environment
Perfection isn't a sliding scale it's a matter of who fits what for which
purpose bearing in mind that Lily wasn't even in consideration for the role of
the Swan Queen in the first place but her light-hearted demonstrations and
rehearsals filled in the blanks that Nina was leaving behind suddenly because
Lily can do what Nina struggles with she seems perfect and make no mistake in
the world of ballet Details Matter the script isn't being flippant when it
highlights just how nuanced Nina's movements need to be to make the cut to this
end many Productions of Swan Lake make cast a different dancer for Odette and
her doppelganger Odelay a thought that never crosses Jacques mind but where
would the world of art and culture be if directors just did the easy thing
besides in Productions of the ballet both Odette and Odelay are on stage so
little splitting the role in two would defeat the purpose of a prima ballerina
historically the role of the Swan Queen is one of the most coveted Center Stage
who is she roles in all of Dance splitting the role may as well be sharing the
spotlight and for girls who have sacrificed their lives and stepped on whoever
they needed to to get here that is not a compliment what Nina represents is a
version of perfection but her version is only suited for half the role so she
may as well be garbage rather than compliment Nina for her strengths she is
criticized for having any flaws at all Black Swan offers a suggestion of what it
takes to experience perfection the individual must disappear when you have a
collection of young men and women who exist in a career field where family and
social lives often interfere with work demands why not demand the best it's not
like they have anyone to go home and cook dinner for with nothing else in their
lives going on why not demand Perfection but the question I have about this is
whether we're putting the cart before the horse is perfection demanded of those
who do not have any life outside of their work or do these incredibly demanding
yet prestigious careers attract people who have nothing else to live for or
rather for those who choose to have nothing else to live for existing within
queer circles I've noticed that there can be a great deal expected of us what
can we contribute to society if we're not going to be birthing the subsequent
generation queer artists usually rise above their contemporaries and are
celebrated as the movers and shakers as the voices of their day and age at least
[Music] until a plague wipes them out or they're outed at which point nobody
wants anything to do with us historically at least even outside of Art we have
been found leading the world of business and politics bringing new insights and
perspectives again and again until we're outed and for those who enter these
worlds here and queer and not able to hide it not only do they have to work
harder to overcome social and institutional roadblocks but it's not enough to
toe the line they have to make history or they're not worth mentioning in
history for instance when we talk about CEOs running gigantic companies we talk
about Bezos or musk or Zuckerberg we never talk about Tim Cook the out gay CEO
of Apple who oversaw the company literally having more cash on hand than the
United States government at one point ever since queer acceptance among parents
began to catch on the level of pressure for us to produce adopted or surrogate
grandchildren has reached pandemic levels whereas before it was very common to
cut ties with intolerant families or for tolerant families to understand the
familial limitations afforded to gay couples and individuals perhaps our queer
striving for Perfection has derived from a sense of spite rather than guilt if I
cannot earn my parents Pride I will make them rule their decision to disown me
but now it's if I cannot continue my family's bloodline I will give my family
name a legacy what the hell is this house of the Dragon perhaps these sentiments
are how this cultural attitude towards queer exceptionalism began but I'm not
sure we've rationalize it like that anymore but if we are like Nina queer or
queer adjacent as she is is there a striving to be the best at what we do a
compulsion or a fostered behavior surely there are many queer people who find
themselves perfectly comfortable in a good home with a companion perhaps even
children even pets if they're lucky my landlord still won't let me have a dog
salty about that these queers have resolved to live a happy life as that branch
manager and live out their Legacy by passing it on to their children there are
also a number of queer people who are comfortable with meager of survival having
left behind traumas and troubles in their youth they're fine doing the best that
they can and just happy to not be hated by the people closest to them to say
nothing of those who live with debilitating psychological or physical
disabilities and for whom survival itself is a struggle for them tends across
the board is a bit cruelly unrealistic but it's that attitude 10 10 10 10 across
the board which originated from within our community found in the underground
ballrooms fashioned from derelict and abandoned corners of heavily populated
Urban spaces tucked away where the idol passerby would not notice this attitude
that a single nine is an ugly smudge upon your reputation these attitudes
developed within our community and were present I imagine long before the
ballroom Queens of Poes built their houses to provide surrogate families to Lost
queer children for there were always the likes of Oscar Wilde and Tchaikovsky
the former worked himself nearly to death even before his criminal sentence so
that he could project the illusion of a lavish Gentleman of Leisure and
Tchaikovsky lived with debilitating depression his entire life Tchaikovsky
especially pushed for that unattainable goal of perfection and while he is now
one of the most celebrated composers of the western musical Canon during his own
lifetime there was question about whether he was or was not a western composer
during his time his home nation of Russia was desperately disconnected from the
rest of Europe a strange mix of Slavic honey and Mongolian with a Sprinkle of
exotic Traditions like Christian Orthodoxy Russia was an alien place to most of
Europe it took german-born Catherine the Great to introduce European ideas to
the motherland there is a mild case to argue that Tchaikovsky did the inverse
unlike other Russian composers Tchaikovsky adopted European traditionalism into
his compositions among audiences his music seemed exotic enough to be enticing
yet familiar enough to be recognizable and very very sad to the extent that
today like David Bowie or the Rolling Stones you've probably heard a Tchaikovsky
Melody even if you don't know that's what it is [Music] unfortunately for him
this put pieta in an uncomfortable position critically despite the fact that he
introduced Russian conventions into European music Paving the way for musical
giants like Stravinsky for the time however Tchaikovsky was in an uncomfortable
middle Zone Russian Scholars lampooned him for distancing himself from
traditional Russian conventions European scholars felt that he did not follow
European standards enough to be intellectually elevated that isn't to say that
he did not have allies in either group mind you who lauded his ability to
present Russian Aesthetics without resorting to gaulish exoticism while being
accessible to westerners ironically Swan Lake was considered a failure when it
premiered get this critics felt the original score was too complex to function
as ballet accompaniment imagine completely Shifting the culture of music and
performance art and everyone around you shrugs and says mid to complex Jesus
meanwhile heterosexual and precursor Nazi Richard Wagner was over there making a
dog and pony show out of morbid complexity and getting lauded for it [Music]
it's the worst when hateful people actually make good art at the very least it
puts him in the camp of other composers who produced pieces of music that were
initially poorly received which then went on to influence the future of
composition Stravinsky's Rite of Spring debussy's symphonic sketches of the sea
orbizets Carmen and the entire career of Hector berlios who's so underrated he
doesn't even get the last name treatment [Music] Tchaikovsky was never openly
gay though there were rumors that he had to dodge for most of his adult life but
as a Russian trying to produce music for a European audience he was an outsider
nevertheless and when people see you as an outsider there's an immediate barrier
they put before you some qualifications of otherness are just more visible but I
hear this echoed within the queer Community to an absurd degree these barriers
and hurdles and expectations ranging from public speaking contests in high
school local craft competitions to watching professionals and Publishing
television and other forms of media.


<span stat:id="irony..." id="parroted"> people who go out on a limb and break the mold and then have their bold advancements parroted by a more... conventional creator. who's then credited with flipping the script (or moderately successful gay YouTube creators who get left on read by nebula). </span>


 I feel that perhaps we
overcompensate for our need to provide ourselves with Legacy we push the limits
a bit further than our Scholars and corporate overlords are willing to recognize
perhaps because we seek Legacy and Perfection for its own sake or rather like
Nina some internalized compulsion we judge the Merit of our craft and art upon
its own values rather than the values of the establishment the objective of that
generally being this needs to sell this isn't to say that queer people own a
monopoly on perfectionism Beethoven and Mozart are also considered perfect
however for every Mozart there were 10 nasaliaries who were okay but they were
not Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart whereas what queer composers can you think of a
difficult question provided that being closeted makes a lot of this analysis
difficult but when it comes to hearsay there were rumors abound of either Chopin
Or List given that they were both Divas who could put Mariah to shame this may
very well check out both of them are concerned oh gods a gold standard of
admission to music programs with a piano Focus around the world it always comes
back to Divas which points to the lingering question at hand do queer people
possess an internalized Perfection complex or are we naturally drawn to Artistic
fields that favor presentation and provided that those without families often
thrive in fields or tangential to show business is this where we find ourselves
at home and in Creative Fields especially the best of the best have their pick
those in demand will always work that even second or third from the best May
struggle that's why the queer Community will lift up the barely talented queers
who manage to get the attention of the straight masses the Ellens and Pete's
this visibility had been a token of hope that perhaps times were changing for
our history of living in the shadows the queer person who makes history they
were the exception to the rule the rule being that the world could do without us
however the developing landscape of queer rights has afforded other venues of
success to queer individuals and sadly it is not greater access to success
[Music] there remains an uncomfortable pattern for what queer people need to do
to be considered contributive members of society that is for those who chose not
to conform to the heteronormative nuclear family pattern of raising children it
seems strange to me that causing a cultural shift in pop music or theater or
film is celebrated on par with Frank and Bob getting married and approved for
adoption they're seen as almost just as remarkable if you can't do one or the
other what use are you this is a strange precedent for our conditional
acceptance we must conform to the hegemonistic system of Game of Life Milestones
to justify our ability to earn our human rights or we must become an icon of
success to qualify as a mold-breaking exception to the blanket attitude about
queer people isn't it strange that a simple relatively unremarkable milestone
for a straight person is now hailed as proof positive of queer success but where
do we go after gay marriage in our lives it's unclear because simply living a
heteronormative life is regarded as a kind of success as if the more of us
enlist in domestic life the greater message we are sending to the CIS hetero
hegemony that we do in fact deserve the same that they do which is a bleak way
to look at it sure again different floats for different boats but the Straits
complain incessantly about home life being the death of personal ambition say
nothing of autonomy and they have the benefit of centuries of media providing a
range of marital Expressions it seems that there's all this talk Among The
Straits about what qualifies as a successful marriage but in queer circles the
success of marriage seems to be getting married in the first place but there's
that success word again and once more it seems to be an inscription rather than
a quality of what's what and for the married gays watching this I am curious do
you feel more pressure to remain together than you see among your heterosexual
counterparts on the playground there is an indication once more that success is
a burying value depending upon who it is describing one would think that success
would be the same for both groups gay and straight marriages but I don't think
it is it's like qualifying a drag queen on the success of Lady Gaga
comparatively Bianca Del Rio or Trixie Mattel have nothing and yet they're
considered to be the icons of drag success at least the ones who don't Frack
whereas Stephanie has her good years and some off ones but again what is success
and is it the same as Perfection like any resource success gains value the more
unattainable it is but only to a point if nobody feels successful then it can't
be used as a gauge for qualifying one's life or more importantly if success is
unattainable then it can't be used as a Sword of Damocles to Lord over people
and convince them that accounting is a perfectly fulfilling vocation and maybe
it is for some certainly pays well with the right certifications but being an
accountant is a Surefire way to have people call you successful in a way that
being a truck driver is not regardless of some who genuinely do find truck
driving to be the preferable fulfilling lifestyle even if someone does have
everything they need from that career and life why the reticence to say that
they are successful regardless if they themselves feel like they have succeeded
if success is neither a Feeling nor a self-qualification what is it how does
success transfer to different careers to different groups of people and for the
sake of argument how does queerness fit into it queer people after all struggle
to find our place in contemporary society and even in schools of practice or
stereotypes say we belong like theater movies art culture dance we still
struggle to find visibility using Janelle Monae as an example listening to her
discography it is abundantly apparent that she was never in the closet she made
a song about how great vaginas were and it was initially read as female
empowerment nobody really got the message until she explicitly said the words
hey I'm kind of totally bisexual and people wonder why we shove our sexuality in
everyone's faces because you will literally refuse to see us if we don't and in
spite of the fact that among her fans she is lauded as the it girl for a modern
revitalization of music in conjunction with the fact that 80's icon Prince
thought she was the greatest thing since jam on toast her musical career is
frequently overlooked and even though her style is hallmarked by a blend of
rockabilly Soul r b and disco credit for disco revitalization is often given to
Dua Lipa who didn't start producing music until years later but Monet is a queer
black woman endures additional roadblocks to her own success in spite of her
intrinsic need to produce top-tier art show business has only so many seats
available it seems and less so for entertainers who are outside the privileged
hegemonys expectations is Monet driven to Excellence because that's simply where
the bar for her connoisseur ship rests or does she have to work that much harder
and produce content that much better than the competition who can pass with
mediocre material perhaps the culture's tolerable awareness for women of color
in genre music is so narrow that the only way to truly break the mold is to
break through it just like seeking the favor of an indifferent director by
tormenting yourself with impossible standards just to watch him look the other
way what kind of life is that what does that do to someone well living among gay
men I find we can be excruciatingly catty with each other demanding unrealistic
ideals to the point of being rude and cruel I see groups within the queer
Community turn on each other on a dime for not being exemplars of queer Justice
it seems we set our own bar very high we must have the best bodies and anyone
not spending at least four days a week at the gym need not be invited to the
club we must have the best marriages inside the best cookie cutter houses and
our children must go to the best exclusive preschools even if we need to take
out a loan to get them there our depictions in fiction are lofty moralistic
idealistic and ethical to a fault messy queers are few and far between and
always criticized with giving the lgbtq community a bad name but this model of
perfection we're holding ourselves up to is one that as I mentioned is a mere
standard of life for straight people the cultural drive to push us into this
nuclear model is one which might diminish us just like straight people who give
up on their dreams of being the next David Bowie because their family pressures
them into getting a real job I think it's only partially true when they say that
we have to put on good appearances to impress The Straits and to justify that we
deserve the same rights they do I feel we have internalized our own neurotic
Perfection we can't be just like the straights we must be better than them in
every way we need to be perfect [Music] suppose that this is a manifestation of
privilege I mean it is but this is one that you wouldn't think about a lot of
elements of privilege have to be experienced in order to truly understand them
it's why the privileged are so ready to deny that privilege exists they may say
well everyone has been under pressure now and then but it's not the same as
existing in that atmosphere all the time especially from an early age constant
exposure to these expectations Force changes in our behavior and thinking
privilege also means having the choice to separate oneself from this environment
of expectations so sure there are times when we are all expected to push
ourselves beyond what we believe we are capable of but there are some of us for
whom that's the only way we can be seen at all especially when our only real
world icons are exemplars of performance art and perfection not every queer
performer can be Freddie Mercury if that's the gold standard for what a queer
performer needs to be to be held up alongside Taylor Swift then we're just not
going to be represented and this is our struggle with representation in fiction
we are often held as exceptional to the point of tokenism because you shouldn't
have to be the absolute best at what you do in order to be visible because
there's only one person who can be the best at something and it goes for queer
people as it does for people of color or even Independent Women who don't want
children if being the best at something is the only way that the hegemony is
willing to recognize our talent then there are thousands if not millions of
queer or people of color or women who will be completely ignored next to the
privileged masses you shouldn't need to be perfect to be seen you shouldn't need
to feel perfect to be valuable considering what many of us have gone through in
life I think still being here is exceptional enough your name may not be in
lights yet but someone knows who you are someone cares about you someone wants
to see you succeed the Black Swan inside you is only ever going to hold you down
hold you back even if others insist that that's the only valuable thing about
you but you don't need her when you can be the Swan Queen you were born to be
[Applause] [Applause] [Music] thank you