---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/kr7ab5d9wno"

date: 2023-04-07
title: Sex, Violence, Showgirls, and The American Way
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - 'Good "Bad" Media and the Death of Satire'
  - "Culture and the death of Satire (Thumbnail)"
  - "Sex, Violence, and Advanced Media Literacy (Title Card)"
  - "Sex & Satire ; Good Bad"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fEjYHiEDU8" # reuploads channel
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - feb26-unprivate

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

[Sponsor plug]

Modest Proposal Art by Henry Behrens

PATREON LINK: [link]  
James's Twitter: [link]  
Nicks Twitter: [link]  

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="4:58" for="The Bad Movies Club" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="12:44" for="Isn't It Iconic?" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="22:06" for="Please Sir, I Want Some Gore" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="31:01" for="Basic" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="37:32" for="Showtime!" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="38:23" for='"BAD"' %}  
{% include chapter-link at="46:03" for="Suspension of Disbelief" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="51:43" for="Re-Examination" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="56:35" for="Climax" %}  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

the rags to riches story is a classic narrative Trope that has captured the
hearts of audiences for Generations one of the most enduring and popular
variations of this tale is the story of a nobody becoming a star this narrative
has been a staple of Hollywood movies for almost a century and it continues to
resonate with audiences to this very day the earliest examples of this story in
cinema can be traced back to the silent film era in 1927 Warner Brothers
released The Jazz Singer about a young man who defies his family's wishes and
pursues a career in Show Business the film was a box office sensation and marked
the emergence of sound in Hollywood movies throughout the 1930s and 40s
Hollywood produced a string of films that featured the rags to riches narrative
perhaps the most famous of these is a star is born which was first released in
1937 and has been remade multiple times since then starring the likes of Janet
Gaynor Judy Garland Barbra Streisand and Lady Gaga as Hollywood left the studio
era behind in the 1970s we saw a shift towards gritty realistic dramas but the
rags to Rich's narrative continued to be popular one notable example was the
rocky series the films tell the story of Rocky Balboa a struggling boxer from
Philadelphia who gets a shot at the heavyweight championship through hard work
and determination Rocky becomes a hero to millions in the 1980s and 1990s
Hollywood began to produce more movies that focused on individual achievement
and the American dream with movies like 1983's Flash Dance about a young woman
who dreams of becoming a professional dancer and 1990s pretty woman about a sex
worker who's hired by a wealthy businessman who then Falls madly in love with
her rags to Rich's storylines are important to people because they provide a
message of Hope and inspiration emphasize the value of hard work and resilience
and offer a form of escapism from the challenges of everyday life by depicting
the Journey of a character who starts from humble beginnings and achieves great
success these stories tap into some of the most fundamental desires and
aspirations that people have and provide a powerful reminder that anything is
possible with the right mindset and the right amount of effort and that's why
we're going to explore the epitome of Rags to Riches American Dream filmmaking
today with show Girls the first a word from our sponsor hellofresh are you sick
of eating nothing but junk food in the occasional can of doggy Chow do you find
cooking meals for yourself to be simply too overwhelming well hellofresh's
pre-proportioned ingredients make it easy and cut down on your food waste by at
least 23 percent compared to grocery shopping helping your wallet and the planet
which is good because on average hello fresh meals have a 31 lower carbon
footprint than the same meals made from Supermarket ingredients and no worries
if you're not a pro in the kitchen I'm certainly not so hellofresh's foolproof
recipes and pre-proportioned easy to prepare meals have saved me from becoming
one of those guys who just orders in every night it's also been a lifesaver ever
since my doctor put me on a borderline ketogenic diet because hellofresh has
options to cover a range of dietary plans low carb low calorie and vegetarian
they even have meals that are best for big families and special meals available
that let you expand your palette by checking out food from across the globe and
now is a great time to sign up for hellofresh because you can save a bunch just
go to hellofresh.com and use the code James s50 for 50 off plus your first box
ships for free yeah fifty percent off just by using the code James s50 that's
j-a-m-e-s-s-50 at hellofresh.com I was kind of shocked by the discount I'm not
gonna lie so put down that can of doggy chow and start eating like a goddess
today [Music] thank you [Music] foreign [Music] thank you lights other lights
there we go good evening girls and Bros and non-binary hoes and welcome to the
main room of the Stardust Hotel and Casino my name is James and I'll be your MC
for this evening of sexy scintillating ladies and Macho super jocks but before
we get to tonight's entertainment I'd like to talk to you about these guys and
gals in some detail so that you know what kind of a show you're in for starting
with the famous ladies of the infamous film Showgirls make no mistake Showgirls
is many people's favorite movie there are entire conventions dedicated to it
with drag queens donning their feather boas and throwing on Southern Accents and
flashing out tasseled nipples at the slightest provocation regardless of the
fact that there are not in fact any tasseled nipples in Showgirls following the
movie's release in box office bomb The Producers managed to turn a profit off of
the cult fan base via home video Collector's Editions midnight screenings
touring the cast for autographs and selling related merchandise the movie since
it went to video and DVD has more than turned a profit and is now fondly
compared to the worst of the worst bad movies like the room and troll 2. but
with boobies when most people say they like show Girls they're usually quick to
say that they like it ironically there are some people who do earnestly think
that it's a good story with amazing performances but we're not going to talk
about them there's also usually gay people in the mix who adore the amount of
intended and unintended camp that exists in this film but most have again an
ironic love of Showgirls they're drawn to the absurdism of it they watch it and
they see a complete failure of Direction in every way they see Elizabeth
Berkeley doing whatever it is that she's doing they see a gruesome carnivalesque
car accident of everything in a movie that could go wrong going worse they see a
failure to meet basic expectations so dire that you can't look away for these
reasons we love show Girls we are drawn to this movie because of all these
terrible elements it's hilarious to see such an egregious failure and make no
mistake showgirls is bad like it's awful the acting ranges from nuanced to
unhinged and in Gina gershon's case she dances on a thin line between the two of
them the plot is Loosely strung together composed of essentially every single
Trope found in A Star is Born movies everything is bombastic and dialed up to an
11 for the entire film there is no point of slowing down however in Vegas at a
roulette table winning off of a hundred Reds in a row is just as improbable as
losing to Black a hundred times but this movie pulls it off somehow hitting so
many perfectly bombastic overuse boring and only in the movies plot tropes in
perfect sequence can't just be a matter of some of the most competent and
celebrated filmmakers of the time turning a blind eye to all of the other
ridiculous things that for some reason landed on the screen surely someone in a
suit and Ty would have looked at some of the pre-production rehearsals and said
you know what maybe Paula Abdul can't dance even outside of how many people will
behind the camera were seasoned Hollywood veterans after watching the movie
itself enough times you begin to pick up on little patterns there's something
about Showgirls that other bad movies just don't seem to have troll to the room
and any number of Camp horror movies they tend to run out of steam about halfway
to two-thirds in they're just not fun to watch anymore they draw from a certain
number of tricks and sensibilities and after a while the audience gets
diminishing returns okay cool Tommy Wiseau is doing Tommy Wiseau things just
like he did those same things earlier in the movie it's actually incredibly
difficult to deliberately create bad movies the examples we Elevate are
accidents the room was intended to be a brilliant Masterpiece with a Madman with
too much money at the helm Troll 2 was just uh a lot a lot of confusion because
movies that try to be bad by parodying tropes in a genre usually run into the
aforementioned problem where they run out of material before they've hit their
feature length or they become predictable they conform to their own format a
little too insecure to keep finding ways to flip the script it's why Monty
Python movies still hold up comedically The Comedy troupe finds ways to keep you
guessing until the very end they just keep throwing things at you you never have
time to pay attention to something that's not funny on the flip side there is an
abundance of movies that are technically perfect and I mean that from a
technical standpoint they are perfect the cinematography gives depth the editing
is tight they've got A-list actors giving the performances of their lives the
script is dripping with pathos but for some reason they're just not engaging and
you can watch Modern Spielberg with rose tinted glasses and you can find a great
movie in there if you want but it doesn't capture the je ne sais quoi elements
of how he just stopped making movies that are interesting to watch the difficult
thing when debating lifelong Spielberg fans is that their idea of his modern
works are so colored by his early career that they ignore the non-qualifiable
elements of is this movie engaging because engaging isn't really anything that
you can reduce to a matter of technique or a checklist of must-haves whether
something is engaging or not is less a matter of technique and more a matter of
artistic taste which is something that cannot be learned but can be fostered and
can be lost the showgirls show Girls is definitely engaging if nothing else and
unlike a slew of other Star Wars Christmas specials there's never really that
point in Showgirls where it stops giving something new to the next scene it's
closer in sensibilities to Rocky Horror which spits everything at you at such a
dizzying pace that you don't even realize that the cast retires for the night
has some sex and after Susan Sarandon distracts us with an acid trip sex scene
for some reason we are gathered at a dinner table having like a four course
dinner what's the matter Columbia it's not like you've never had meatloaf before
but the argument here isn't that Showgirls is ironically fantastic I honestly
have come to the belief the Showgirls is unironically a masterpiece of Cinema
specifically because it's intended to be a showcase of Badness but in order to
distinguish what I mean by an ironic appreciation of Showgirls we really need to
sit down and talk about irony itself because in this post-jagged little pill
Alanis Morissette world we live in irony has become one of the most overused and
misunderstood words in all of the English language [Music] many people who say
that something is ironic probably are referring to something that is
coincidental or something that seems vaguely literary as it happens in real life
this leads people to believe that irony has a fluid and interchangeable meaning
which results in the word being thrown into random sentences to sound academic
like an undergraduate who has to fill out a word count or a right-wing talk show
or podcast host clearly though irony has an incredibly specific set of uses
vaguely when something is ironic it means what happens occurs in spite of the
events that were meant to lead to it an example of something ironic is actually
a 1996 indie rock song deliberately outlining the number of fake ironies and
then becoming so popular that it causes a shift in the cultural awareness of
irony while fans of the song are entirely unaware that a song called ironic does
not contain any actual ironies Alanis Morissette's song actually outlines a
number of coincidences isn't it ironic that a song called ironic does not
contain anything ironic the difference between irony and a coincidence is that a
coincidence describes two instances which occur in spite of each other an irony
to describes a single outcome that subverts preceding events or information
irony cannot be coincidental as a matter of fact because the outcome happens
specifically because of an effort taken to ensure it would not happen in order
for more sets line it's like rain on your wedding day to be ironic you would
have needed to plan your wedding in a part of the world with almost no
precipitation in a time of the year where precipitation is additionally uncommon
only for it to rain anyway while your hometown of Seattle Washington has a solid
week of sunshine but this is only one kind of irony there are actually three
different specific ways that irony can exist the first as demonstrated and most
commonly misused is situational irony raining every day on your vacation only
for the sun to shine the day that you leave is classic but this symbolism and
foreshadowing are some of the oldest literary devices in history one of the
greatest ironies in all of literature is Sophocles Oedipus tyrannus which many
people know is the story of a guy who kills his dad to [ __ ] his mom
popularized by by the pseudo-scientific and Incredibly skewed research of
Sigmund Freud Sophocles told the story of Oedipus who in an unnecessarily
complicated Cascade of time jumps and people stepping on stage and saying but
wait you don't know the whole story Oedipus is the prince of Corinth who once
asked the Oracle of Delphi who his birth parents were she replied that he would
kill his father and marry his mother obviously put off by this thereafter he
vows to never return to Corinth so he would not kill his father so he decides to
travel to Thebes and gets in an argument with an anonymous wealthy man at a
Crossroads a fight breaks out and Oedipus kills the other man he then instead
marries jocosta the recently widowed queen of Thieves which seriously this is
the guy who solved the riddle of the Sphinx and he can't figure out what
happened to the recently murdered King of Thieves or that maybe if you're
prophesied to sleep with your mother maybe avoid older women in general and the
way we get around this plot hole is by Oedipus withholding information from the
audience until the third act I don't know sounds like it needs to get
workshopped a bit in spite of oedipus's inability to put two and two together we
learned that he was adopted by the royal family of Corinth and was actually born
to jocosta in Thebes and the man he killed at the crossroads which he was only
traveling specifically because he was trying to escape his fate was actually his
father the irony here is that oedipus's decision to avoid his fate is what led
him to do exactly what the Oracle said he would do the additional layer of
situational irony is that Freud named his Oedipus complex to describe a boy who
wants to remove his father and sleep with his mother when the point of Oedipus
is how desperately he didn't want to do this he wasn't weird meanwhile why does
nobody give the Oracle of Delphi the credit she deserves [ __ ] given 10th
dimensional Chess Championship semi-finalists here next year average anime
teenage villain so yeah that was situational irony events influence and outcome
though the outcome subverts the expectations the next most well-known instance
of irony is dramatic irony dramatic irony is typically used in theater or more
recently visual mediums like film and television this is where the audience is
made aware of how the story is going to end before the Story begins which
Oedipus tyrannus is another example of but this isn't to be confused with
foreshadowing where within the literature itself there is an indication of what
is to come foreshadowing occurs in a way where the characters hypothetically
could be be made aware of future events with varying degrees of subtlety this
doesn't always need to be a narrative prologue which directly tells the audience
what's going to happen dramatic irony to use another Shakespearean example for
which all of our high school teachers drilled into US is Romeo and Juliet which
not only is probably one of his worst plays but evidenced by the fact that he
thought so little of the play's contents that he opened it up with a prologue
that literally tells the audience that they can leave if they want without
missing much gone are the days when people watch TV and movies to actually watch
them instead of just the one-time instant gratification serotonin Rush of
gasping at the obvious interchangeable plot twists that you've seen in 20 other
movies back in my day we used to have more reasons to watch movies than just to
be surprised for two minutes no seriously spoiler culture has destroyed the use
of dramatic irony you get people these days who refuse to watch movie trailers
because they spoil the story let alone that the plot is only one component of
any dramatic media the audience goes into the play aware that both Romeo and
Juliet die before they even meet them likely because the first three acts are
just so Piney that he needed some indication to let the audience know that it
wasn't just romantic drivel it was romantic drivel with double suicide it was
entirely constructed to project the message that young love is dumb how ironic
is it that we consider it a great love story today dramatic irony doesn't need
to be literary either James Cameron's Titanic is dramatically ironic because you
literally walked into the theater knowing the ship's gonna sink you know what's
going to happen the characters do not the third type of irony and one we don't
usually acknowledge is irony is a verbal irony or more popularly known as satire
this is where the phrasing in syntax used in a work do not align with the actual
intentions of the author through the use of other literary devices often the
carnivalesque or exaggeration the Creator's intent is made clear this is the
case with Jonathan Swift's satirical essay a modest proposal in which he details
a solution to the famine in Ireland where the government enacts emissive for the
Irish to cannibalize their unwanted Catholic infants this wood he said solve
three problems food shortage overpopulation and affording poor families a source
of income by selling their babies to meat producers boom check check check but
here's the thing Swift himself was Irish and in the language of English
intellectual arguments of the day he dismisses other plausible easy solutions to
famine and poverty in Ireland this is a satirical parody of the political and
academic justifications of Cruelty instead he raises a claim so absurd that it
seems completely unrealistic while highlighting the lengths that the English
Parliament will go to instead of finding any other feasible solution to a food
shortage a difficulty When approaching verbal irony or satire is the
non-qualifiable element of taste as mentioned in other videos and will be
mentioned again satire has a considerable risk of being too subtle and thus can
be read as supporting the very thing that it intends to ridicule in which case I
have an argument to say the Showgirls itself qualifies as verbal irony for
reasons that I fully intend on explaining in gratuitous detail if it's true and
the entire point of Showgirls is to make you see how bad it is then those who
love Showgirls ironically for the entertainment value of seeing a terrible movie
are actually appreciating Showgirls for the exact reason it was meant to be
consumed so if you say you love show Girls ironically you're actually
unironically conforming to the Cinematic experience that Paul verhoven wanted to
give to you and to the rest of us who admire it unironically we're the actual
ironic ones you know because that's how irony works satire things aren't what
you would like expect them to be subverted and stuff yeah irony but it's quite a
claim to take a movie that's bad and say that not only is it so bad that it's
good but that it's a masterpiece because it's meant to be so bad that it can't
not be good such a bold claim is going to require some very bold evidence
[Music] before we talk about Showgirls itself we need to justify my claim about
seasoned Hollywood veterans behind the camera because when it comes to
well-respected directors it's not uncommon that they make a bad movie so in that
case it usually is just boring or forgettable but if we look at Trends in
Hollywood it's actually much less likely that an incredibly competent and
well-paid team could fail to the point of making something that spectacularly
bad then going out of one's way to make something that's spectacularly bad on
purpose director Paul verhoven actually is responsible for several other films
from the pre-millennial era of Hollywood which to this day continue to be held
up and even turned into memes specifically I want to take a look at Basic
Instinct Robocop and Starship Troopers and while Basic Instinct sets a strange
gold bar for murder mystery cop dramas and is relevant to Showgirls specifically
both Robocop and Starship Troopers established fairhoven as a master satirist in
the case of Robocop and Troopers they ought to be used as examples of the use of
framing devices to completely subvert the content of the film in either instance
the scripts themselves are of very little substance aside from intending to be
mass-market crowd-pleasing action movies however in this process verhoven
completely subverts the written content and spoken word of his visual cues and
getting especially specific performances from his actors in the case of a visual
cue certain scenes or the entire film are established One Way permitting a
sarcastic interpretation of the events in the instance of performances an actor
May evoke certain references from their line delivery alone this is a specially
important for Starship Troopers the plot of Starship Troopers is nothing special
nothing you wouldn't get out of your average Army movie originally written as
what was considered a coming-of-age novel by Robert a Heinlein while on one hand
it was praised for its sequences of training and combat it was very divisive in
nature heineland's very deliberate show of support for violent military
campaigns was met with criticisms that echoed The public's fatigue of ongoing
conflict in Vietnam that didn't seem to have a clear goal or end point the use
of military and War in a coming-of-age novel is also a real wholesome boys
becoming mankana story right the story is problematic and even at the time there
were some raised eyebrows which in conjunction with the novel's politics about
who is not worthy of being a citizen have left a relatively tarnished Legacy for
the story heinlin himself was inspired to write this novel when in 1958 America
announced a suspension of all nuclear arms testing he apparently felt that
America faced too much of a threat to just be wide open like that what if a race
of semi-sentient bug people were to attack how would America defend itself then
so he wrote a book about it which in itself has a kind of Clueless
Ridiculousness about it on one hand Heinlein wanted to write a book where the
American I mean I mean human where the human way of life is under threat of
annihilation by the Menace of sentient murderbugs on the other hand Heinlein
really wanted to depict the kind of futuristic Utopia that he felt mankind would
only attain through a fascist State he depicts our leaders as unilaterally
virtuous and trustworthy furthermore the only citizens who have a right to vote
or participate in Civic discussion are those who have worked within the
government almost exclusively in the military so what happens when you give what
is by almost all accounts a proto-fascist narrative that is so celebratory of
the military that there's a strong case to describe it as a recruitment tool to
a Dutch director who watched the Nazis take over his country you get a space
Nazi recruitment film that's what you get as if the Aryan poster boy who goes
through the trials of war and doubt to shut off the Flippin Boyhood to become a
grizzled yet dazzlingly handsome leader among men was not convincing enough we
get Neil Patrick Harris as a psychic officer and an SS Overcoat verhoven seems
to take the recruitment meta text of the book and incorporate it into the text
of his film where there are Fascist elements he draws inspiration from Lenny
Riefenstahl but at the same time very subtly makes a mockery of these characters
and their problems and when in doubt showcase an absurd number of shots of these
space fascists dying in droves against these aliens because they don't have the
power armor that they had in the book however there is an additional layer to
this movie which is the opening and closing sequence the I'm doing my part too
is a meme that sees frequent usage on the internet in conjunction with the
closing sequence where the three primary characters basically look at the camera
and say enlist today really work to frame this entire film as enlistment
propaganda that would exist in a universe where humanity is embroiled in a
conflict against giant murder bugs in space and really especially when it comes
down to Johnny every area and over here he goes through the stages of a
Whimsical desire to serve his country questioning and doubting his own
leadership making trauma-bonded friends and learning the hard way how to make
tough choices it really does establish a flattering expectation of armed
services in conjunction with his two other high school friends who were also
military bound we are shown that there are more ways than one to serve one's
country I mean planet the overwhelming majority of satirical elements though are
from visual cues and performances when it comes to the majority of Hollywood
executives that's a little too subtle for them to pick up on with their little
business degrees the film was marketed as a straightforward cut and dry Sci-Fi
Action Movie trailers for the film make no attempt to display any kind of
satirical intent this is something that was fairly common in many verhoven films
particularly his action movies as Billy from their depictions in the trailers
they can be sold as straightforward action movies but have a little bit more
substance than other films in the same genre while Starship Troopers maybe
verhoven's greatest example of scathingly sarcastic condemnation of his own
source material RoboCop is his best example of genre criticism so unapparent
that it can pass for the media it's actually trying to subvert again set in a
science fiction Universe RoboCop is the kind of Bionic Man story that you would
expect a cop is killed in the line of duty and after being reconstructed as a
cyborg begins to get flashes of his old life and then goes on a Revenge Quest
against the human people who killed him holy [ __ ] is that the dad from That
70s Show at a glance RoboCop seems to be your run-of-the-mill cop movie but he's
a robot the city of Detroit is so crime ridden that officers can regularly
expect their buddies to die in the line of duty being an officer is more about
saying badass lines to the queer-coated bad guys and the corporate bad guys to
whom they are secretly employed not to be confused with the corporate good guys
who will benefit from having the icky corporate Executives unceremoniously
removed on a level deeper the film is about excessive police violence officers
are depicted treating their firearms like toys and take apparent Delight in
opportunities to use them police officers put themselves in situations where
they need to use Force instead of say due process and investigation when police
officers die the force uses this as justification for requiring greater
armaments leading to the bad guys acquiring more Firepower for themselves on a
deeper level the film speaks as a cautionary tale of the kind of world this
police state arms race will generate spliced in between the narrative are a
number of newsreels where anchors give a brief synopsis of the state of the
world functionally these newsreels give the audience an idea of how the public
reacts to police crime and the introduction of the first cybernetic officer both
Robocop and Starship Troopers demonstrate Paul verhoven's ability to create a
narrative which can deceive audiences and producers into believing a film
project is one thing when it's actually another in spite of his satirical
Tendencies verhoven does manage to pull off serious fiction very well working on
projects that earned him a heap of Hollywood cred namely his other titso cocaine
snorting bisexual demonizing wacky waving inflatable tube orgasming
psychological Thriller Basic Instinct which bears and outstanding connection to
show Girls from what I can gather Showgirls was intended to recreate the magic
of Basic Instinct but bigger Basic Instinct was small in scope a psychological
ROM through sex and conflicts of interest in the police force which was a big
hit and even though Studios may have thought it was because the audience got a
front row view of Sharon Stone snatch iconic the film itself was an engaging and
methodical case study in gaslighting the audience the key here was engaging
performances from everyone involved Beyond sharing verhoven is the director of
these films also have the same writer Joe esterhaus being able to navigate the
twists and turns in this whodunis when the who is abundantly clear and yet even
the audience begins to doubt themselves takes a strong narrative Direction this
movie made an absurd amount of money especially for a hard R rating and surely
not all of that could be credited to the sex in order to really sell the story
to the audience everyone else needs to be on top of their game estherhas also
wrote the script for Flashdance which helped cement him is Hollywood's naked
lady go-to guy the surge in popularity of high-profile erotic Thrillers was
drawing the eye of upper level Hollywood Executives and they wanted to take the
Acclaim of Basic Instinct and push it even further the primary draw to Basic
Instinct may have been the strongly provocative sex scenes but the real dramatic
pull was the chemistry between Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone who plays
Catherine tremel is an heiress and an author involved in a gruesome murder as
the victim's girlfriend one of her novels also depicts the murder scene in
perfect detail right down to the ice pick she also has other novels depicting
murders that she is linked to while it seems that Catherine is the obvious
suspect she has everyone wrapped around her finger through the process of
seduction even the audience questions whether she actually did it or not we may
be inclined to wonder how a writer could go from Basic Instinct to show Girls
however to be honest there was a lot about Basic Instinct which from a writing
perspective would be red flags things there seem to just happen which are
nonsensical except to fit certain dramatic beats namely the dramatic
relationship between Douglas's homicide detective Nick Curran and police
psychologist Dr Beth Garner after Corrine was put under investigation for
shooting two tourists he had to undergo therapy sessions with Garner where they
also began seeing each other romantically even while Curran was still her
patient which is an ethical cluster and while the film makes no attempt to
flatter the sfpd there is a certain suspension of disbelief needed to take this
seriously especially as it's made clear that the other officers gossip that
kurin only started dating Dr Garner to get off the hook there are also a few
other minor plot holes or dropped beats the kind that exists in almost every
movie that you don't pay attention to however as I said about suspension of
disbelief the audience remains engaged regardless because the performances of
the actors are selling you a world in which this chain of events is possible we
can dismiss the breaches of Ethics as a self-aware criticism of corruption in
the police force we can dismiss the dropped beats as an additional layer of
doubt that the audience is meant to Come Away with provided the talent in front
of the camera with the chemistry between Stone and Douglas especially
shortcomings in the material can be excused because you are so engaged in what
the film is doing well that you don't notice when it's not Landing verhoven's
initial cut would have actually gotten Basic Instinct in NC-17 rating the
release cut was about 45 seconds shorter and swapped out different shots to
obscure the explicit elements no doubt this was at the Studio's insistence but
the seed was planted if it was okay to make an NC-17 movie how much more could a
studio get away with showing all they needed was one genuinely great NC-17 film
to open the floodgates which brings us to Showgirls there's a movie that's
creating quite a buzz in Hollywood these days not only because of its racy
content but also because its director is hoping it will receive the very rating
that usually means box office death NC-17 so there was a lot riding on the idea
of the film that would become show girls even if the script didn't exist yet and
as it so happened esterhaus pitched the idea of a Las Vegas story about the
corruption of Fame to Paul verhoven and wrote it down on a napkin the idea of
the duo behind Basic Instinct collaborating on this project was something
everyone in Hollywood wanted in on every major Studio made bids on Esther haas's
pitch resulting in an idea that went to auction and landed a 2 million dollar
advance in the early 90s when the film went into production he was paid another
1.7 million dollars for the finished script MGM wanted to recreate the magic of
Basic Instinct and they were pulling out all the stops and so it is in spite of
being surrounded by some of the most renowned character actors of the day that
Elizabeth Berkeley was doing this and Elizabeth Berkeley is no Sharon Stone with
no Sharon Stone and so the audience has no reason to take for granted that any
of the weird elements of Showgirls are happening on purpose instead it's all
part of the hurricane of pure chaos that occupies the majority of screen time in
Showgirls and so all the little questions and doubts bubble up to the surface
and instead of suspending your disbelief you openly wonder if this is a strip
club or a drag bar is it camp is it drama is a cringe is it gritty is a glamor
even if Aster Hoss's script itself is lacking it's one thing to say that
verhoven made a dog and pony show of Badness a project he was signed on to that
had no hope of being good so he steered the ship into hurricane Nomi in the
hopes that it would find a cult audience so it's another thing entirely to argue
that verhoven specifically opted for the depictions that he did to deliberately
make a mockery of the entire genre of rising star narratives through a lens so
subtle that it was mistaken for the trash it was entirely meant to satirize
which provided verhoven's affinity for satire I don't think it's out of the
realm of possibility but Showgirls is an entirely different Beast so really the
next question we need to ask ourselves is what the [ __ ] is going on in this
movie [Music] even if it's good for being bad you don't make something this good
without knowing what you're doing as a filmmaker you know it's a long path from
conception to release to be good at your job you need to know how to identify
the Stepping Stones you should avoid they're usually wobbly with bad writing
acting or even editing you want to stick to the solid stones to make your job as
easy as possible so what happens if you choose to step on all the wobbly ones on
purpose before we begin to look at Showgirls as a master class in meta textual
satire there are cues to examine that indicate that even if trying to make a
mockery verhoven can't help himself but use exemplary cinematic technique
[Music] [Music] I don't want to miscommunicate even if it is a case study of
Badness it's intended to be a collection of the worst possible non-qualifiable
narrative decisions Showgirls from a structural point of view is a big hot mess
first you start with a plot that really isn't anything special a normal girl
gets swept up into a life of Fame and stardom by nothing but her own grit and
raw talent the quintessential American Underdog though she learns that Life in
the Fast Lane comes with its set of drawbacks haunted by an examination of who
she has become to succeed in this lifestyle she steps away from the spotlight
she fought so hard to achieve realizing that the real spotlight where the people
she met along the way such and such Etc nonsense coupled with several love
triangles a tempestuous love-hate rivalry and an inevitable departure from this
lifestyle this movie is basically every other movie like it but it's the fact
that stuffed into the plot is every other movie like it this movie is the most
movie that it could possibly be within the first seven minutes there is
hitchhiking a switchblade attempted vehicular manslaughter references to
gambling addiction vomiting attempted suicide and eluded lesbian undertones and
the movie doesn't really slow down from there it systematically goes around and
hits every single Mark that a dramatic film could hit this results in a plot
that has about two dozen things in it that don't really need to be there it's a
situation like Tommy with sews the room where things seem to just happen because
these are things that happen in dramatic movies so it should go into this
dramatic movie I got the results of the test back I definitely have breast
cancer so it's really hard to synopsisize Showgirls for its elements of Badness
because there are many sequences that seem to be from many different sub-genres
of rising star movies on one hand it wants to draw from the starving artist
who's persevering on Talent alone on the other hand it's telling a story about
the exploitation of women in entertainment it's also telling a story about
navigating the politics of the entertainment industry and it's telling a story
about the consequences of stardom burlesque Black Swan Hustlers any number of
the stars-born movies they're only trying to tell one of those stories there are
also sequences that just don't make any sense the recurring theme of food is
strange even though she's managed to be an incredibly successful crowd pleaser
at the Cheetah club Nomi is now relegated to a diet of brown rice and vegetables
this apparently culminates later on in the film with Nomi reflecting on her life
while gazing over the Vegas strip eating a hamburger it seems that under the
pressure she has broken from her diet to afford herself a small pleasure which
would be very impactful if it wasn't for the fact that not only do we never see
her ingest brown rice and or vegetables but we do see her eating junk food
regularly including a hamburger outside of looking pretty this scene offers
nothing to the development of the character there's also the weirdness in which
esterhaus has these people talking about brown rice and vegetables like it's
nutrient paste do you like brown rice and vegetables yeah you do worse than dog
food and food in general I've had dog food you have doggy Chow John I used to
love doggie Chow I love doggy Joe avoid this sign up for hellofresh and
especially given that the entire top-down decision making behind the movie was
about tits I'm especially confused about the depiction of nipples the missiles
first of all is it normal for girls to apply lipstick to their nipples is that a
thing do straight guys want that what what what's going on here but primarily
the display of bear boobies is so gratuitous it Ventures into complete
desensitization again this is a movie about topless girls in a Las Vegas show
boobs being nothing special is probably par for the course however this ends up
being another indication that Esther Haas doesn't know what he's talking about
topless shows in Las Vegas to my knowledge according to one Elvira do not happen
like this yes there were topless shows in Vegas but nipples were covered with
pasties or tassels so that's a thing and second the girls were rarely exploited
to this degree at least not professionally okay show me your tits this scene
itself is a bit wonky because there's a huge deal made about Nomi exposing
herself like this even though it's nothing we've already seen at least once in
the last 30 minutes the more impactful thing to do would be to have know me
never really take off her top in the early part of the movie even at the strip
club however because she wants this part so badly she's willing to begin making
compromises but because not one scene earlier we saw Nomi give it topless
gyroscopic lap dance when the audition scene hits not only are Nomi's boobs
nothing we haven't seen before but her reaction doesn't fit someone who has been
stripping to pay rent since she stepped foot in Vegas according to interviews
with Vegas showgirls the topless part of auditions was done very impersonally
the dancer would have a topless Polaroid taken which would be shown to the
director later the photo would likely be taken by another woman I can't speak to
the casting procedures of every director in Vegas but esterhaus seems to treat
it like the worst person is the common element this movie is about the
exploitation of women in professional spaces and we will twist the plot's arm to
make it happen God damn it you can tell that Esther Haas was at the very least
thinking of the themes he was trying to present here because even after her
tantrum Nomi gets the part and on her first performance she opts to apply ice to
her nipples herself signifying that she's being corrupted by the drive to
compete in this atmosphere not that someone passed the third row would be able
to see how hard her nipples are but you know symbolism the sexual themes
themselves are a lot and common celebrations of Showgirls Focus around several
famous sex scenes where Elizabeth Berkeley demonstrates her core strength the
sex is quick wild and demonstrates a Fantastical ease at which women can reach
convulsing orgasm while riding a man's abdomen for those who have seen Basic
Instinct one may say that this is just how Paul verhoven thinks sex happens
however the sex and Basic Instincts served a methodical purpose sex in the
opening scene features a woman rhythmically arriving a soon to be ice-picked man
every subsequent instance of sex in the movie going forward becomes a little bit
more unhinged in the final sequence Catherine tremel is rigid robotic and not at
all sexy my take on this is that it's meant to be read that she loses a bit of
her Humanity as we get to the core of who she really is the sex and showgirls at
least doesn't seem to be as nuanced it's kind of just wacky definitely worth a
watch content warning of course because there is an completely out of nowhere
sexual assault which I would say even provided an artistic reading of show Girls
shouldn't be there actress Gina Rivera did not need to be put through that but
if the movie is this much of a train wreck why would I ever assume that there
was anything more to it [Music] foreign [Music] the first real indication I
noticed of Showgirls demonstrating that it knows what it's doing came towards
the end of the second act rising star Naomi Malone has just sabotaged the show's
star Crystal Connors and taken her role as the star of this world-renowned show
goddess while being celebrated by the Press Nomi poses beside the power players
of the casino chest bear this is an almost identical Recreation of an earlier
scene with Crystal Connors the primary difference aside from know me being in
her Shadow is that Crystal conceals herself in a massive fur coach the
connections between the two scenes function on multiple levels having moved up
from her Vegas Origins as a dancer in a strip club Nomi longs to be part of The
Prestige of proper performance dancing Crystal spends the entire movie trying to
convince her that at their core there really isn't any difference between
topless dancing at this casino and topless dancing at the Cheetah club Nomi
resents Crystal for these little reminders and fully chooses to believe that she
has left behind her old salacious life for greener pastures Crystal cynically
entertains no Illusions know me by contrast is open and exposed to the
glittering fantasy of Las Vegas she is so enchanted by the lights and the glamor
that she is vulnerable to the darker reality of the industry even as Crystal
does what she can to disenchant Nomi to the underbelly of it so now that we have
this one very visceral instance of symbolism what do we do with it we can either
discount it as an accident or a coincidence or we can examine valhoven's film
library and give him the benefit of the doubt if this one instance holds heavy
symbology what else in the movie is symbolic if we examine Crystal as a proper
literary foil to know me rather than just a Trope there's a bit of a rabbit hole
that we can go down Crystal urges Nomi to understand that there are more
similarities between them than differences Crystal still Likens herself to a
kind of sex worker but Nomi does not find this similarity flattering what seems
to be the story's apparent villain trying to get a rise out of the protagonist
is actually an indication that Crystal sees right through her the only
difference between them it seems is that Crystal is honest about her former
identity whereas Nomi keeps paulianne Costello hidden from everyone when Nomi
does get a role in the chorus she seems to feel like she's moved up in the world
and no longer has to exploit herself for survival this is of course not the case
I mean really the script doesn't handle this with a whole lot of subtlety hard
sells subtext the girls it seems are regularly brought in to entertain potential
businessmen to facilitate Partnerships with the casino meanwhile at the cheetah
there are very clear very specific rules about interactions with John's 50 books
a pop you take them in the back touch and go they touch they go you can touch
them they cannot touch you there are no such rules at the Stardust the girls are
exploited and pitted against each other they are shopped around for sex and they
use sex to advance their positions there's even an argument to be made that
claims that the cheetah is a safer more wholesome atmosphere than the Stardust
which may not be an approximation to reality but it fuels the point the film is
trying to make it also helps that as Nomi enters the chorus of goddess there are
numerous ways that the dancers are subtextually dehumanized through a number of
comparisons to animals primarily there's I still love doggie Chow coupled with
the addition of a set of chimpanzees the administration considers managing the
girls to be the same as managing The Chimps what they say or want doesn't really
matter so long as they dance even the show within the show goddess mirrors the
film itself while we never see the show start to finish nor do we even see all
of its numbers the audience has evidence of four maybe five sets we know the
introduction is the volcano setting iconic and we know that the finale ends with
Crystal being lifted from the stage we see the industrial setting where Nomi
pushes Crystal down a flight of stairs and based on costume changes backstage we
know that after the opening number we go into a beat address sequence that
thanks to a boat show we can link to one of the most played songs in the movie
between the beaded dress and the industrial set there may be another fifth
number for which we hear the music in the audition choreography but not for sure
the assumed plot of goddess in sequence opens with men and women in chaos and
conflict the goddess's arrival ushers in an era of passion and sensuality as the
archetype of sexuality and Womanhood in stark contrast to Our abrahamic Roots we
can't say what the next two numbers are about but when we next pick up with the
industrial scene women and The Feminine archetype of the Goddess are held
prisoner and exploited by the men on stage in turn the women are in conflict
with each other we move into the presumably final sequence of the show where
there is once again unity in order and the goddess transcends the world in the
same way that Nomi Malone transcends Las Vegas when she decides that the casino
industry is a bit too skeezy for her granted the play within a play a literary
device is crude but serviceable it indicates that those creating this film are
thinking about their own content [Music] be fair some of this may be to Esther
haas's credit it seems he had clear intent but just got kind of very mixed up in
all of the pesky minutia of the you know being a human being thing I've heard
rumors that he had a clause in his contract that no changes to the script could
be made after his final draft which is never the case in Hollywood the director
almost always rewrites a script or has it Rewritten to match their own style
however estherhas and verhoven were friends so there may have been a significant
amount of input that verhoven had in its development without asking verhoven I
can't really know for certain but provided that there is some very deliberate
methodology incorporated into the visuals of this film what happens if we give
it the benefit of the doubt and say that this was all deliberate at the same
time if we take into consideration what expectations were coming down from
Studio heads at MGM what do we get we get a movie that does exactly what the
studio wanted it to everything not because the filmmakers didn't know how to
restrain themselves but because they were deliberately trying to conform to the
level of ridiculousness that this film was expected to be it's like that episode
from The Simpsons when Homer designs his own car each little part is kind of a
cool idea on its own but assemble everything together and if you just get a
monstrosity because the point of Showgirls isn't about the corruptive power of
Fame it's not about the sexual exploitation of women in the entertainment
industry the point of show Girls is to point out that this movie is a
monstrosity because all of these things in Showgirls are things that in other
movies are celebrated just like know me the audience is suspended into believing
that these kinds of Underdog Fame narratives are possible how many girls in
America set out to Las Vegas hoping to be seen by the right person how many of
them never get out of the cheetah Showgirls is holding a mirror up in front of
that expectation it's as ridiculous as these sex scenes just like women having
orgasms in behoven films the cell is the dream the Khan is believing that it
could really happen that way Showgirls is like its content it only really works
if we live in a fantasy world where rules don't matter the dancing the glamor
even Nomi's insane wild sex moves they all benefit a fantasy of what it could be
like people praising Nomi for her incredible dancing skills a fantasy a stripper
reaching climax while giving a lap dance a fantasy the sexual fantasies seemed
to fit a masculine perspective the fame and fortune fantasies seem to speak to
the dreams and Ambitions of young women the whole thing suggests that Vegas or
the idea of Vegas is a fantasy all while the film makes a scathing criticism of
Las Vegas itself for all that Nomi holds up Vegas entertainment has the Pinnacle
of prestige and dance valhoven takes every opportunity to Lampoon Las Vegas
itself from the comedic acts of the drag-esque performances at the cheetah to
Nomi's Premier performance as goddess being heralded by a singing man in a toga
at the famous Caesar's Palace even something as nonsensical as Nomi's
mispronunciation of Versace as Versace while this textually shows the audience
that even if Nomi dresses herself up that she doesn't actually have any class if
we take into consideration that this is a movie made by Europeans it says
something else all these high-rolling Americans making fun of Nomi for
pronouncing Versace wrong seem to be clueless that this Italian surname is
pronounced Versace they are mocking her for saying it wrong and correcting her
with a different mispronunciation for all the Vegas props itself up as a high
society just like Nomi slipping on a dress she bought with a 500 lap dance Vegas
doesn't have a lick of class itself there's a tacky greasy cringy film over
everything in this town in the movie fake pyramids fake breasts fake values this
world that know me prizes so desperately is the equivalent of a cardboard cutout
of success and validation even the down to earth artist dancer who promotes real
values is fake the only thing that's real is fakeness something that Crystal is
nonchalantly trying to communicate the film lies to your face when its
characters remark that know me is a good dancer the film lies to you when it
tells you that female orgasms can happen instantaneously and the film seems to
be pointing out that any other time you see this stuff in any other movie it's
just as much of a lie thank you [Music] foreign [Music] for Showgirls is
accomplishing exactly what I would argue the filmmakers want to communicate
maybe there was once an intention to make this an earnestly good movie and the
pieces are all there maybe dial back the clown car of a script to focus on the
beats that support the underlying themes without obfuscating them my deepest
reading of Showgirls is that it functions as a warning verhoven longed to
validate the NC-17 rating because of the way the American NC-17 rating was
widely applied to European films that were otherwise celebrated and popular the
open displays of sexual themes in cinema was and remains fairly common in Europe
verhoven expressed frustration that when these films went for an American
release they would be stamped with an NC-17 rating and they would tank at the
box office an NC-17 is like taking a hit out on a movie in America this is
speculation on my part but when verhoven finally had a studio stamp of approval
to make an NC-17 Hollywood feature his tune may have changed perhaps validating
the NC-17 rating would have just resulted in studio heads throwing tits in a
movie and not for any artistic reason just for shock factor and instead of
deliberately sabotaging the project verhoven crafted the kind of film that would
eventually be the outcome of letting Hollywood Executives notoriously know very
little about Cinema or film Theory play with tits perhaps you realize that
America wouldn't adopt more European values instead would be more like Las Vegas
Nomi's Exodus from Nevada on the road to Los Angeles was heralding a warning to
Hollywood that upon the conditional validation of NC-17 sexuality one could
expect many movies to become more like Showgirls instead of say angli's lust
caution and that perhaps Americans simply do not have the same values when it
comes to sex or sexuality as Europeans when as a society did we become so
confused about the difference between sex acts and sexuality to the point where
even an object which is tangentially related to a symbol of sexuality is seen
more or less as the same as promiscuity itself during the 2016 presidential run
husband of presidential candidate Pete butterjas chaston canceled a scheduled
campaign stop in a gay bar because there was a poll on the stage a poll which
well used for many things one of which being the traditional dance form in India
and China can be used for sexual titillation many in the queer community at
large saw this as a slap in the face from a man whose claim to fame was the
first openly gay man to run for president and an ill Omen of how he would
observe queer issues from the Oval Office but the question to me wasn't why
Buddha judge specifically would reject an instance of queer sexuality but why is
it expected of American political representatives to detest sexuality in general
the more we reject instances of sex and sexuality the more we treat sex as this
naughty taboo thing where the slightest mention of human sexuality something
that is pivotally fundamental to the species is risque but we can't ever not
think about sex as a society because looming over this sexist dirty mindset is
the fact that we are all aware that every person in this Society exists as a
result of sex the movie The Showgirls was meant to be can never exist in
Hollywood because the second you want to develop an artistic project about sex
sex is all it's ever going to be about sex becomes a gimmick sex becomes a
spectacle a selling point sex becomes a statement a shock an exploitation but
one thing that sex can never be seen as is normal I can see a very problematic
state of human existence arising from a mindset where the action dependent on
our survival is seen as abnormal because if sex itself is abnormal sexuality and
any opinion you may have about sex is abnormal too even an unwillingness to have
sex is seen as abnormal because people believe that in spite of society's
condemnation of it that you still should want to do it anyway and it's weird if
you don't it's a very sad state of America when a film about the exploitation of
sex is decried as one of the worst movies of all time whereas when the same
director made RoboCop featuring gratuitous violence and the plot of which is
just about as nonsensical it is held up as an action masterpiece violence is
okay sex is not we need to begin reevaluating our widespread stigmatization of
sex because even as the NC-17 rating remains a death knell for Hollywood movies
some of the most significant television series that have been made between now
and the release of Showgirls would have gotten that rating without hesitation
Game of Thrones sex in the city Queer as Folk we clearly are comfortable enough
with sex to be open to its depiction in the comfort of our own homes but we
still like to pretend like it doesn't exist when we're anywhere else a world
where Showgirls exists is a world where America can find dignity and sex a
culture that is embarrassed by sex cannot take it seriously because nobody is
going to know how to bring it up in polite Society think about that the next
time you shame someone for posting a thirst trap on Instagram or get embarrassed
because your friends started in only fans we're never going to be able to use
art to celebrate sex if we use sex to shame other people so if you find yourself
in the habit of shaming others for their sexual practices or even micromanaging
what ought to qualify as normal sex take a moment to stop and remind yourself
that it's you it's your fault it's your fault that we have showgirls thank you
[Music] [Music] thank you [Applause] [Music] thank you [Music] thank you