---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/kxgpvm09gcm"
  - "/videos/gQVWepgSvfg" # original upload
  - "/videos/gqvwepgsvfg"

date: 2022-09-19
title: Reclaiming the "Q" Word
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - !!str In Defense of "Queer"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup"
  # - "https://web.archive.org/web/20210523190521/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gQVWepgSvfg" # Original upload
# description: "a video essay on...?"

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

*Re-upload*

The Q word is a very contentious one these days. But gay words have always been contentious. Let's have a look at their history, and what we can do to take the "hate" out of "hate speech".

00:00 Intro  
01:28 Part One  
06:50 Part Two  
12:51 Part Three  
18:25 Part Four  
24:10 Part Five  
28:18 Part Six  
34:36 Part Seven  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

foreign [Music] so I've noticed that a lot of people in the comments take issue
with my use of the word queer in respect to the whole Squad of CIS hetero
hegemony resistance some people have told me to just use LGBT others have said
to Simply say gay for the whole crew because that's not exclusionary at all so
seeing as how I apparently love nothing more than poking Bears on the internet I
wanted to explain my rationale behind this which ended up going a lot deeper
than I expected shocker [Music] [Music] okay so LGBT this as a term started
being used in 1988 by some small groups in the United States but didn't gain
mainstream use until the late 1990s though it started out as G LBT because gay
men were running most of the organizations and of course we had to come first
and then LGB because what the hell is a trans person but eventually LGBT became
the accepted acronym mainly because it could refer to the community without any
words that might trigger The Straits like lesbian okay or bisexual or
transgender you know not people just letters but as you can see from the initial
evolution of the term it has its problems mainly that it in any use is naturally
exclusionary the only widely agreed upon abbreviation is LGBT though many people
will use lgbtq or lgbtqia or lgbtqia Plus or what's common here in Canada
lgbtqia 2s Plus however when it comes to branding any word longer than four
syllables is an absolute no-go and there's years of market research to back this
up so mostly you wouldn't normally hear anyone outside the community using
anything more than LGBT even though I've seen some people use lgbtq i p d o g s
a a plus lesbian gay bisexual transgender transsexual queer questioning intersex
pansexual demisexual omnisexual genderqueer straight asexual Ally Plus JFC right
now this is all in the name of being as inclusive as possible which is good we
people of the alphabet soup are excluded from enough spaces we don't need to be
[ __ ] and exclude each other that goes there to the people with just LGB listed
in their Twitter profiles but the thing is our community has so many small
niches of self-identification that no matter what version of alphabet soup
you're using in casual language you will likely be excluding someone and then
you get to situations where people at Pride festivals have to use some version
of the full thing seven or eight times in a speech that's neither practical nor
does it accomplish the desired effect of inclusion because you've either left a
letter out or someone has stopped listening and thinks that you've left a letter
out because you've been reciting a more complicated version of the ABCs for the
last forever furthermore it opens up a door for Selective and deliberate
exclusion as I mentioned with the LGB people on Twitter or the G's and the L's
who don't want to acknowledge anyone else or a society of allies that will Swoon
at the progress of lgbtqia plus representation when there's actually just gay
people being represented or one lesbian and half a scene and as an anxious
person who makes videos for and about this community I can say that I fully
understand the amount of energy put into overthinking if a given script is
leaving out a letter after spending weeks writing and shooting a video just to
start editing and realizing I forgot a letter because someone will get angry at
me for not including gender non-conforming demisexual straight allies this
complaint is based on a true YouTube comment and not to play the gatekeeper but
I'm not entirely comfortable with having an a for allies for a few reasons I've
never heard an ally refer to themselves as part of the community I haven't heard
a straight person say I'm lgbtqia or check that off on a survey as an identity
option it's like when expecting parents say we are pregnant no if a cisman is
involved in this process that is literally impossible girls I know you want to
make a complete family and you want him to be involved but he's not pregnant
he's not up at 4 30 a.m puking his guts up he doesn't have to stretch his dick
hole out the size of a coconut he doesn't have the back problems the food
cravings the lifelong stretch marks unless he's trans or non-binary and you've
both hit the baby batter at the same time then yes you could both be pregnant
but not usually anyway allies I am grateful for straight people who support us
and I'm grateful that straight people recognize how amazing this community can
be at its best so much so that they steal our culture any chance they get and I
am so grateful straight guys in my life who have been perfectly comfortable with
me staring at their asses thing is you can go back to your straight lives
anytime you like you can be with us while we come out be there to support us but
you don't experience it you don't internalize the emotions or the circumstances
surrounding it maybe straight CIS women have a better understanding of what it's
like because they too come from a culture which historically likes to Badger
them into certain expectations but even then they've never had to sit their
family down and reveal that they've actually been a woman this whole time at the
end of the day being an ally is a choice regardless if it's a choice that you've
made because you just can't stand Injustice it's still an action that you chose
this doesn't necessarily fit the whole branding image that we queers are as
mother monster once sang Born This Way But consistency is a whole other problem
with the lgbtqip so LG not the TV sexualities you like people who have the same
gender appearance I mean there's problems with that but we'll get into that a
bit then you have bisexual which used to mean that you liked everyone but then
as we started to include gender non-conformists into the larger awareness of
gender identity it meant that you only liked people who binarily identified as
men or women and now it seems that you can like everyone again or not it depends
on who you ask so right after B comes T which being trans has nothing to do with
who you want to have sex with a big problem I've seen in the past among the
sishats is that a lot of people seem to be under the impression that transgender
is actually a sexuality are they willfully ignorant or simply misinformed
debatable after that tea we have another T this one stands for transsexual which
some say is different from transgender While others say it's just an older term
meaning the same thing I'm sis so I'll leave that argument up to other people so
after the t's we have q which itself is ambiguous Q stands for queer or
sometimes questioning but usually queer which is used as a placeholder and a
catch-all for everything that isn't already described which then is kind of
redundant because the letters after it go on to be more specific then you get I
I stands for intersex which is neither a sexuality and not necessarily an
identity more specifically it's a physiological phenomenon as the phenotypical
result of chromosome combinations beyond the simple x x and XY binary which
Jesus Christ biology so in genetics a phenotype is the set of observable
characteristics or traits of an organism the term covers the organism's
morphology or physical form and structure its developmental processes it's
biochemical and physiological properties Its Behavior and the products of said
Behavior among humans in this context it basically means are you visually
identifiable as male or female but intersex means that you're not technically
male or female on a biological level though you likely present as one or the
other which really gets under the skin of the gender critical types who are
married to the idea that male and female are etched in stone you'd think that
given that this has been a documented component of biology and almost all
species that gender critical folks would piss off because it is proof positive
that human beings do not exist exclusively on a male female binary but they're
dumb and don't understand biology despite their propensity to pretend that
they're biologists and I'm greatly simplifying here for the sake of time anyway
a as I mentioned this means allies or at least it did now there's two ways
because it could also mean asexual which is a far more valid a to have on the
list but a lot of people are reluctant to let asexuals into the inner Circles of
lgbtism the thought process goes well if you're asexual then your sexuality has
no influence on your daily life so GTFO it doesn't help that the asexual or Ace
Community itself is splintered where the vast majority of non-asexual people
think they're completely sexless and the vast majority of media depicts them as
emotionless robots who are usually autistic when in reality yes you do have the
no sex folks but also the very specific circumstances folks and the only people
I'm emotionally attracted to folks and the people I have no emotional attraction
to folks the phone sex only the cyber sex only the I just like to watch and the
high libido asexual folks who have a barrel of Ky next to their bed and several
terabytes of porn and within the community itself there is gatekeeping going on
that's trying to say who on the aforementioned list is a real asexual then
there's 2s or two-spirited which I gotta say I love that North American Pride
organizations are acting like their next level woke for their minimal amount of
effort to include First Nations people because you know actually going out of
your way to help First Nations people economically and or socially would simply
be absurd oh you'd like help getting out of the giant economic hole that we've
put you in or maybe help stopping native women being murdered every other night
how about a new stripe on the pride flag instead anyway throwing 2s into the mix
is an ice gesture if nothing else though it does project an idea of pre-colonial
pan-americanism where the whole of Native American people represent a single
monolithic culture when in fact it was composed of hundreds of tribes and
languages North America had more disparate native cultures than Europe had white
ones but it's hard to acknowledge that now because the English Dutch and French
genocided entire nations without a second thought white people which cue the I'm
not like other white people speeches from the ones who read a book about First
Nations beliefs in spiritualism and then hang a dreamcatcher on the wall you
want to be spiritual white people there are other religions you know pray to
Jupiter or Odin there's all kinds of gods and deities to pray to from Europe
instead of appropriating the beliefs of victims of genocide we could give
sermons to pan speaking of pan Which can also be short for pansexual which is
the p in the LGBT mess essentially pansexual means that you're attracted to
anyone no matter how they present on the gender Spectrum bottom line is that the
whole abbreviation which it stopped being an abbreviation about eight letters
ago it's a big long jumbled confusing mess of this isn't really straight which
caps off with some cultural appropriation especially when you attack on the plus
at the end of it what's the Plus for some people say it's for HIV positive folks
which is good but a lot of people in the community don't want to include
positive people so it's taken to be read as just Plus like plus whoever else
comes along which isn't that what the queue is for it seems to me the more we as
the people of the alphabet soup continue to identify as things other than simply
LGBT and or t the more messy the acronym becomes but cleaning it up isn't so
simple [Music] foreign another big reason why I dislike the LGBT label is that
it is a very fragmented collection of identities we're adding new letters to the
mix all the time as we carry on the old ones which more research we do the more
we're indicating that our initial assumptions about gender and sexuality were
false all right history lesson so homosexuality was a term coined in the late
19th century but didn't actually achieve widespread use until the mid-1900s this
is a distinct sort of switch in the way people thought about sex acts between
those of the same physiological sex homosexual is a term which refers to an
individual and thus paints same-sex attraction as an intrinsic element of one's
personality but earlier phrases tell a different story through most of
christianized Europe the descriptor was sodomites in reference to the act of
sodomy or also tributism when referring to two women later would come sexual
inversion or sexual deviants I like that second one and yes queer was a term
used but more so to describe someone of a certain set of behaviors in the same
language as dandeism in England though queer was a bit more of a negative term
it wasn't explicitly derogatory though until the late 1800s in the American
Northwest whereas Dandy was more of an endearment queer in English just means
weird strange or outside the ordinary the key difference was that before the
budding field of psychology sprung up around the turn of the 20th century gay
sex was an action which led to engaging in gay sex as a lifestyle Freud Kinsey
and other psychologists and sexologists sought not only to draw people into
categories but also ascribe actions of an individual's daily life to an inner
fixed state of personhood basically queer had been something you did but now
queer was something that you were for whatever good intention these researchers
may have had the public interpreted this knowledge as there was now a category
of people for whom God-fearing heteronormativity he was something they were
completely incapable of due to their fixed psychological condition as a
homosexual I try to explain this to people sometimes and they don't quite
realize just how much of a fundamental shift in understanding this was consider
that criminal persecution was focused on the specific Act of sodomy and fellatio
and that a sense of justice among the public was rooted in punishing the person
who committed the act the antagonism was directed at the act of sex but
following psychological qualifications the antagonism was now directed at the
individual the individual was homosexual it was intrinsic to one's sense of
being in fact Freud's writings on the topic stated that homosexuality was not
something someone was born with but the result of a snag in early age
psychological development and while he did believe that was no fault of the
individual it was still considered to be a kind of defect or malformity
basically he thought we were the sexual version of the Elephant Man but Freud
was office rocker and we don't have to take what he said seriously but he was
pivotal in shifting a societal understanding of queerness where anybody could be
homosexual if it was an element of Developmental personhood or genetic
determinism then there might be no apparent indication of this person's
queerness they could be hiding anywhere suddenly the crime of being gay was not
the actual Act of sex but a matter of being your actions were not illegal you
were illegal which correct me if I'm off base here but that seems a whole lot
worse to me at least from an internally psychological level think of the way
that changed how we think of ourselves for instance in Europe up until around
the early 1900s male male sex was seen as something that every man was capable
of doing this is obvious in early English writings about Italy where wealthy
parents were informed not to let their sons travel there because the much more
sexually fluid Italian Catholic boys would corrupt Englishmen into same-sex
engagements because the gays could spread it though even this was subject to
vast variants across Europe in terms of attitudes towards sexuality the
prevailing concept of homosexuality was taken for granted some guys like to
point other guys whether that was okay or not dependent upon where you lived and
What social class you were in though the thought process about sexuality as
being part of identity didn't really factor into the question in fact sexuality
as a term and a concept wasn't even used to describe what gender or sex you were
attracted to the subject of someone's sexuality was a description of their
sexual habits which yes could be same-sex attraction but more likely we're going
to be talking about what Kinks they were into and if you're wondering why this
section is so man-centric this is because the vast majority of legal persecution
of early queers was focused on men firstly there was just much less legal effort
when it came to documenting women in general we're missing information on that
front so we can't really speak to it secondly information about early lesbians
kind of results in men not really being willing to talk about it in the legal
case of Radcliffe Hall she in her book The Well of Loneliness depicted World War

<comment {% include commenter for=lvence %}>

[TODO]
A good article on why English laws do not ban lesbianism on the book. I think this fits in debunking the Radclyffe Hall remark. TLDR the legislators really didn't want their wives and daughter to find out about lesbianism, but still punish it under different legal offenses. https://www.open.edu/openlearn/society-politics-law/law/lesbianism-and-the-criminal-law-england-and-wales

</comment>

One ambulance drivers as being primarily lesbians English courts were really not
pleased with this depiction but women who love women with such an uncomfortable
topic for them they threw her case out of the courts and just let her carry on
in her happy life which is mostly me trying to apologize for not having as much
fem on Femme content in this video here have some Sarah ponsby and Lady Eleanor
Butler and their dog sappho [Music] so the term homosexual was developed as a
term to reclassify an element of culture that had existed since the dawn of time
in many pre-christian cultures men boinking other men was simply an element of
the culture itself it was seen as a deterministic inevitability yeah we knew
that Spartans were going to Spartan but the more research is done into ancient
cultures the more we learned that it was perfectly acceptable to be in an openly
male male relationship we're also learning that these ancient cultures did not
in fact place any stigma on bottoming Achilles was a power bottom archaeological
anthropology as a whole is giving us a version of history in which
pre-christianized societies had no specific language for making a distinction
between same-sex and heterosexual relationships as well being very comfortable
with members of society who did not conform to gender binaries to a much greater
degree than we've ever been willing to admit or aware of Vikings and Celts and
Goths didn't see any reason to develop a descriptive language for queerness
because they didn't see queer people as being incompatible with how these
societies functioned being queer didn't mean you couldn't build boats raise
livestock fight Wars or command fleets in many cases gender non-conformity also
had positions within Society across multiple societies homosexuality was
actually a term coined and pushed by non-queer academics and regardless of their
intentions and regardless of how it has shaped the progression toward queer
rights it itself is an invented term but we keep celebrating this concept of
homosexuality as an inherent truth when even our ancestors who were queer
friendly would have looked at it as such a strange rigid qualification and
especially because it was used by others to describe the group of us rather than
us opting to Define ourselves the creation of the word gave homosexual men and
women something to call ourselves an identity not just a descriptor but we
didn't come up with it and now just look at the writing on the wall every
passing generation has a growing number of people who identify as bi or
pansexual every year psychological research tells us that sexuality and gender
are getting more and more fluid and that outside of social conditioning a lot of
people don't really have strict rules about gender attraction at all which is
going to end up adding a lot more letters the alternative is what we have now I
see a major cultural push to funnel people into a limited finite number of
acceptable identities which have been pre-approved by The Straits you'll notice
a pattern that queer folks who the straights are still comfortable bullying are
those who choose not to fit into one of the very reasonable selections that
they've been offered it's an expected compromise yes the Straits will let us get
married but only if we exist as the kind of gaze that they're okay with which
should be a bit off-putting to the alphabet soup people around us who don't like
the word queer the straights control what is okay what we can call ourselves do
you realize how many other things they've called us which were in objective
sense probably way more dehumanizing and sometimes just stupid like yeah they've
called us but I can't in my right mind imagine being upset at being called a
cream puff like if someone calls me a cream puff there's just gonna be a big old
okay Boomer eye roll and whenever someone tries to insult me with queer then I
just feel bad that they're so disconnected from the modern world that they
resort to an outdated insult there's a point where someone is so disconnected
from reality that they don't matter anymore let's take a moment to remember the
archaic and forgotten insults to queer people [Music] and this is the wonderful
part about language things change do you think it matters that the original
definition of ultimate meant that it was just something at the end of a list no
people don't give a [ __ ] they're gonna say ultimate because it means awesome
best biggest incredible amazing show-stopping spectacular words don't have any
inherent value they mean what we think they mean so if everyone thinks that
queer is an insult that's what it becomes and besides if you've got a younger
group of gabies growing up with a positive take on the word queer why do you
want to tell them that it's a bad word why do you want people to feel more
oppressed than they already do like I get that you don't like the word probably
for some very valid reasons that we'll get into but it was never the word that
was attacking you it was the homophobe the religious zealot the bigot words
themselves don't mean anything but they carry meaning and if you choose to see
this word as carrying hatred and bigotry especially when this is a word that is
largely outside of the realm of common use you are choosing to carry the pain
and suffering from your past into the present and given shifting attitudes
toward queer folk in many places in the world that is pain and suffering that
does not need to be here which we can certainly do without though we're going to
face some difficulties from the older generations of people who have grown up in
a world where you were meant to shape your entire identity around your sexuality
either in Conformity to stereotypes or in spite of them and to them I don't
really have anything reassuring to say we're not living in the same world that
we were and the younger generations of gay and trans babies have every right to
Define themselves as you fought for the right to Define yourselves it would be a
bit hypocritical of us to turn around and say um no actually we defined
ourselves this way so you have to Define yourself the same way especially as the
way we defined ourselves as insufficient to describe developments and how we are
coming to discover and ReDiscover gender and sexual expression foreign [Music]
the word queer is already being widely adopted despite resistance by the old
guard in academic circles queer theory is the term used by many within social
and literary criticism because you know a bunch of literate queers wanted to
qualify the interactive and reactive elements within the many factions of queer
culture and their relation to the hetero world and if a room full of pig-headed
academics can agree the queer is a term that can apply to the room as a whole
maybe it's something we should think about have you ever been in a room with an
academic you can't even agree with themselves but regardless of this not only is
queer useful as a description of the overarching collection of often Misfit
identities it's entirely appropriate to repurpose an archaic insult into
something that can be interpreted by many as a positive so my big question to
everyone who doesn't like the idea is why do you want to make a world with more
negativity in it if queer is an insult then that's just one more negative word
in the world straight people took an otherwise unremarkable word removed it from
word neutrality and made it into something malignant and by us allowing that
word to continue to be a negative not only are we perpetuating that hatred but
we are giving straight people an insane amount of power over how we the queers
identify ourselves why should the Straits influence us so much we should be
influencing them by shifting queer into the category of exclusive language like
many of you constantly harass me about you are letting a negative toxic hetero
hegemony limit your language if you want to limit your own language that's fine
because it's a result of the self making an assertion of what one is comfortable
with but I have strong ethical concerns about living in an apparently
politically correct Society where the class of reformed oppressors are still
dictating our existence hold on a minute really let that sink in this time they
are not limiting our actions but rather and this is worse shaping the way we
think about ourselves and that isn't to dismiss the pain and suffering that
people have gone through queer has been used as an insult within lived history
yes and your trauma matters but there is a problem when you are telling others
that they should have your trauma why do you want more people to have trauma
isn't that the entire point of gay queer whatever rights remember when that's
gay was an insult basically someone saying that something that they didn't like
was gay that's what I grew up with gay was the worst word in the world now when
someone says that's gay they mean yeah that's pretty gay gay pride and then out
comes the I don't understand why we need new gay representation we have plenty
of gay movies from the 90s and they helped me so these damn kids complaining
about not having any gay movies just need to watch in and out yes in and out
Pinnacle of filmmaking and remains relevant to Modern queer audiences around the
world culture defined and then emerges this kind of toxicity within the queer
Community where all you'll ever need has already been done which is a very
inspiring message by the way to automatically snap back in history to more
homophobic and transphobic decades identify with queers facing 20 year old
problems and if you're a creator you're just [ __ ] out of luck might as well
give up everything we need has already been done feed the machine of dredging up
suffering from the past and twisting it into something that can fit in today all
the while ignoring members of our community who today suffer and are
underrepresented and who suffer because they are not represented we lost an
entire generation of queer artists because of AIDS we don't need to stifle the
Next Generation [Music] I realize that there's a few contradictions developing
here at the same time that I'm advocating replacing one overarching umbrella
term LGBT for another queer I'm also pushing for a stronger presence in
self-identification how does changing the overarching descriptive term
accomplish that and furthermore how does it help bolster the voices of internal
communities in a way that LGBT doesn't already do well for starters someone will
have to make a conscious decision am I referring to the whole Community or am I
just referring to a singular group because as a single word queer refers to a
specific idea whereas LGBT refers to many things however in practice there is an
encouragement to default to LGBT when even just one of the given identity
criteria are met speaking to the most publicly accepted and privileged of us
does not facilitate a presence for the entire community and especially in idle
conversations when people gloss over the letters and CIS people are especially
guilty of this it's like they aren't really aware of what the letters actually
stand for instead they just vomit out the jumble of sounds because this is what
they've been told they're supposed to say and they're going to stick to the
script God damn it but these aren't words they're letters and letters don't
carry the history of the words that they represent but if people start using
queer maybe they'll take half a second to acknowledge to themselves The
Suffering that has been inflicted on the queer community that is still inflicted
on this community and will continue to be inflicted for as long as we keep
declaring every narcissistic twink on YouTube and Wall Street gay to be a
champion of lgbtqia plus rights maybe they'll think maybe I shouldn't call this
queer representation because this does not represent all queers it only
represents the gays or the lesbians or the bias or the trans people or the
envies because it's not like being queer means that lesbian and trans and
non-binary will just vanish in fact I hope that having a singular term will help
these communities have the ability to describe their own presence in the world
suddenly Hollywood journalists will maybe stop saying that a movie has lgbtqia
plus representation when really there's just a cyclops monster lady like as far
as visible clearly stated representation goes that's just L representation and
that's fine that's that's more than fine that's great lesbian representation but
having a cyclops lesbian in a movie does not qualify for representing trans
people and saying that a movie has lgbtqia plus representation when it's only
representing one letter is bad I want media to be clear and distinct about what
identities are being presented don't give a Studio lgbtqia Plus Credit points
for having a lesbian sister character or a gay best friend and that's it not all
lgbtqia plus people get equal time in the spotlight let's talk about media
actually since that's kind of my wheelhouse two TV shows that both are described
as having lgbtqia plus representation Queer as Folk and Shameless Queer as Folk
is a show about a group of gay and lesbian friends in turn of the Millennium
Pittsburgh and focuses mainly on a whole host of queer issues including gay
bashing same-sex marriage monogamy drugs and addiction relationships between HIV
positive and negative people coming out porn surrogacy family Dynamics and
dealing with anti-gay politicians Shameless on the other hand is a show about an
impoverished family in Chicago trying to get by as the city gentrifies and their
flawed upbringings lead them down paths that destroy opportunities for Education
career advancement and emotional stability which one sounds more lgbtqia plus
inclusive if you haven't watched them you might be surprised to find out that
it's not the one about gay people queers folk focuses almost entirely on gays
and lesbians with a hint of bisexuality around the edges and that's it one of my
favorite shows of all time but it's very LGB focused which isn't a bad thing but
we can't really say it's an lgbtqia Plus show while Shameless which is
ostensibly a straight show about poverty actually is far more inclusive of the
lgbtqia spectrum we've got queer characters like Monica the never around mom of
the family who's pansexual Ian her gay son who actually had his own vomiting
scene after being forced to have sex with a woman a nice Twist on a very tired
trope Mickey Ian's OTP who is also gay in a bossy bottom but who gets married to
a woman at one point in the series The Woman being Svetlana a bisexual Russian
who ends up in a three-way relationship with another by character V and her
husband Kev Ian's sister Debbie is eventually bisexual with multiple girlfriends
and Ian dates trans man Trevor for a while who was probably the most
down-to-earth and stable character to appear on the show and they're just the
characters with major story arcs there's a lot more so the straight show
actually has far more lgbtqia plus representation than the show with queer in
the title and yet the objective of Queer as Folk is to discuss issues and
elements of the queer Community as a whole perhaps not as inclusive as it could
have or should have been but it speaks more to a queer state of being even as
Shameless has it beat for quantifiable representation check boxes which is what
my hope for the word queer would be LGBT is a term which basically functions as
a checklist a head count but it's really hard to qualify an overarching culture
of shared values it's hard to talk about lgbtqia plus culture because it refers
to the political and sociological status of the group of people it represents
queer has greater flexibility in describing not only the collection of these
people but also referring to the collective and shared culture between them at
the same time the syntax itself makes it less appropriate to refer to queer
representation when speaking to representation of individual internal
communities would be more proper plus making it a word that has been formerly
used as a slur may make the straight second guess just using it by default so
when there's lesbian representation without trans representation they'll say
lesbian representation instead of giving a studio or network a pat on the back
for diversity they didn't earn [Music] [Applause] [Music] but at the end of the
day we really need to start to unify and recognize the individual needs within
various groups in the community and while that may seem to be contradictory I
don't think we specifically the more privileged elements within the community
can really address those needs without coming together yes we are divided in our
identities but that doesn't mean we need to be divided in our common objectives
the whole I've got mine it's up to you to get yours has never been in season and
frankly it's a bad look on anyone let's be honest anything and everything can be
used or misused as an insult against us you think it's a mental slip that Boomer
politicians say transgender to people why do we condemn words so deeply while
ignoring the intention laid behind them if you say fact while talking about how
much you love your tragically gay best friend group you're homophobic but if you
pass harmful or dismissive legislation while describing these people as the LGBT
community you're doing great focusing on language and politically correct
language makes it so easy for people to persecute us and Escape consequences
because technically they're saying the right things if that's all we care about
using the right language then we're just gonna let the rest of society walk all
over us we already let ourselves get tone policed every time one of us gets
angry at something that we should be angry about the sish head folks cross their
arms and say well that's not how you make friends you need to focus on getting
people on your side which sure but at the same time we would rather just be
treated like human beings without having to jump through hoops while our allies
hold our rights hostage for our good behavior if we take every word that has
ever been used against us and tell ourselves that we can't say it we're going to
become very illiterate very quickly but we also possess the transformative power
of looking at something hateful and taking it away from our haters by removing
their language of hate we remove their power over us at least some of it it
doesn't stop there granted they still have legal protections to hate us but we
can take away their ability to force us to react to their hate we're here we're
queer and by slinging insults at us they're only demonstrating that they're
choosing not to ignore us which a bunch of grown ass Christian men obsessing
over half-naked muscle Queens grinding on each other on a pride float that's
kind of gay the straighter option would just be to not think about it try it I
know it's hard and if you don't want to identify as queer that's fine I can't
make you do anything unless you're into that but I can say that the future does
not belong to us we can only push it in the direction that we like and see what
sticks with young people but what's the point in having Pride if we're not proud
to be different to be outside the normal to be queer if we're ashamed of being
queer of being different then isn't this a fundamental failure of Pride on a
basic level I mean why would you want to be proud of being like everyone else
congratulations you can function on a base level of boringness established by
generations of restrictive social conditioning hooray assimilation successful so
in closing as the emotional music swells I'm not here to make you cry today just
don't be basic be clear [Music] [Music] [Music] thank you