---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/qvu84kjtgve"

date: 2020-09-10
title: "Evil Queens: A Queer Look at Disney History"
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "Evil Queens：A Gay Look at Disney History (Video essay)"
  - "Evil Queens: Disney's Queer Cold War (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - hbomb

recs:
  - { title: "What Makes Disney Villains so Gay?", author: "Matt Baume", url: "https://youtu.be/GsWpUSEKSbk?si=p6p1pfOs8STiMMAX" }

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
    tinker_belles: { color: 3, short: "(Griffin, 2000)", full: "Griffin, S. (2000). <em>Tinker Belles and Evil Queens: The Walt Disney Company from the Inside Out</em> New York. New York University Press.", url: "https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctv12pnpj2", type: "book", style: 'book' }
    queer_mulan: { color: 5, short: "(Tom, 2018)", full: "Tom‚ J. (2018, Jun 5). <em>The Groundbreaking Queerness of Disney's 'Mulan'</em> Shondaland. Retrieved Jan 25, 2024, from", url: "https://www.shondaland.com/live/a21073307/disney-mulan-queerness/" }
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

A deep dive into the history of LGBT representation (or lackthereof) in Disney films. From the Silly Symphonies to Star Wars and Marvel. 

Based on the book "Tinker Belles and Evil Queens" by Sean P. Griffin

Patreon: [link]

Twitter: [handle]

This video contains copyrighted material. The use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. I am making this material available in my efforts to further bring to light the history of LGBTQ+ representation in film and television. I believe this constitutes a fair use of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law.

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="06:06" for="The Days of Walt Disney" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="29:46" for="The New Blood" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="58:51" for="A New Era" %}  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

and now our feature [Music] presentation on November 8th 2018 Disney's CEO Bob
Iger announced Disney's latest World conquering Venture Disney plus a Digital
streaming service dub a Netflix Killer by many in the media that would make
almost all of Disney's content streamable in one place not you we don't talk
about you big draws to the service were announcements of original series
focusing on Disney's Marvel and Star Wars brands with Falcon and the Winter
Soldier W division Loki and the Mandalorian being revealed though only the
Mandalorian had a planned release date anytime soon alongside the Disney owned
Brands would live content from companies the mouse had recently AC acquired
namely 20th Century Fox the Frau bio to Fox had played out in entertainment
reporting for months with most of the internet being in favor of the potential
ever growing Monopoly since it would mean Marvel's X-Men and Fantastic 4 would
be under the watchful eye of Kevin feige at Disney but along with the mutants
Disney acquired hundreds of other properties from Fox including The Rocky Horror
Picture Show which they've duy ignored ever since and the film writes to the
novel Simon versus the homo sapien agenda by Becky albertal a young adult novel
about a teenage gay romance that had been adapted into a hit film earlier that
year unlike Rocky Horror Disney saw potential with love Simon's family-friendly
representation of gay teens and announced a sequel streaming series as one of
its main hooks to Disney plus you see Disney fully intended their streaming
service to compete with Netflix the dominant force in the streaming game since
it became a thing and something Netflix had become well known for was their LGBT
inclusive content whether it was original shows like Orange is the New Black
sense8 Shira and the princesses of power and Grace and Frankie or their
extensive library of queer films Netflix had pretty much cornered the LGBT
streaming market and Disney wanted a piece of it according to the Hollywood
Reporter Disney has a massive amount of data pointing toward them being
incredibly popular among the LGBT community and so they wanted to play into that
by creating love Victor the company pushed Disney Plus's annual subscription
early on locking audiences into a full Year's worth of membership before the
vast majority of their original content had even begun production and one of its
big selling points was the diversity representation of Love Victor according to
Market Research approximately 3.5 million initial subscribers to Disney plus
were LGBT obviously love Victor wasn't the sole reason reason for these people
subscribing but I'm willing to bet that it certainly helped boost those numbers
Disney plus went live in November of 2019 with the Mandalorian being their only
major draw casting and production news surrounding love Victor had regularly
trended on social media and the upcoming series was considered Disney's Next
safe bet after the Mandalorian ran its course but then in February of 2020
things changed Disney announced that love Victor would not be appearing on
Disney plus despite selling people on it from the very beginning instead it
would stream on the also Disney owned Hulu a service with half as many
subscribers and one not available almost anywhere outside the United States
their reasoning deadline reported that Executives at Disney thought love Victor
wasn't familyfriendly enough for the brand I wonder what wasn't familyfriendly
enough about it one needs to ask what would it have meant for a generation of
queer kids to see a show representing them on a Disney platform you don't get
much more mainstream than Disney that might have given hope to queer kids who
are held down by their homophobic or transphobic families or communities and
while many queer youth avoided love Simon in theaters for fear of being spotted
seeing a gay movie This TV sequel could have allowed them to take in a cute gay
teen comedy from the comfort of their own laptop or phone a possibility made all
the more likely with how popular love Simon has been on streaming with Disney
Plus in almost 50 million households by the time love Victor was released this
June that would have been a gigantic potential audience but Hulu isn't in as
nearly many homes it isn't nearly as mainstream Disney had the opportunity to
say to those gay kids your stories are as good as anyone else's but now by
shafting it over to Hulu the mouse has unequivocably said you don't belong here
according to Hulu love Victor was its most binged show of 20120 which is pretty
impressive considering how we've all been locked up with little more to do then
stream TV shows so not only did Disney segregate the queer audience to a smaller
platform but it missed out on a hit series something the service is in desperate
need of with data showing that aside from the Mandalorian none of Disney Plus's
original content has been a hit when Disney made the announcement that love
Victor was being sent to Hulu I was frustrated but not shocked I was frustrated
that even in 2020 queer people aren't considered familyfriendly enough for
Disney but I wasn't shocked because Disney has an out and proud history of using
and abusing the LGBT community for its own means in order to talk about that
we'll need to discuss Disney's prolific history of queer coding villains
straight washing Heroes and pandering to the LGBT community just to ignore us
once they have our [Music] money gay culture has always held the Disney UA in
high regard but why exactly to say that Disney was queer coding in the early
days would be a bit disingenuous I hardly believe that good old Uncle Walt hater
of all things subversive would insert queer coded messages into his early
animated films although six hairy men in one twink living together is a bit
suspect but queer readings of Disney films are possible and quite well known
really it all comes down to Fantasy queer culture particularly gay male culture
has long held a fascination with fantasy the close Association of gay men to the
world of fantasy has attributed to some of the most most common insults for gay
men in Western culture fairy queen and princess while elaborating on what
constitutes a gay sensibility Michael bronsky LGBT historian stresses the
importance of imagination imagination is especially threatening to a culture
that repressively and rigidly defines gender roles because it can provide an
alternative Vision to the real world therefore fantasy contains a a possible
critique of dominant heteronormative culture as well as allowing for a proxy to
exist one of the reasons young fantasy fans have been expected to grow out of
the genre for decades with LGBT people living every day as an alternative to
dominant culture ties to Fantasy seem inevitable although not necessarily
evoking a world of gender fluidity fantasy is often described as a method of
escape from the trials and tribulations of everyday reality living in a society
that has outlawed homosexual desire categorized it as a medical disease labeled
it as a sin against God and allowed and often encouraged violent acts against
LGBT people queer culture has unsurprisingly embraced the potential for escape
that fantasy and fairy tales provide heroes or heroins rise above their stations
rewarded for all their hardship and vilification by finding Prince Charming
Andor being crowned as royalty others leave their drab and shabby existence and
find a fascinating otherw World in which Anything is Possible the second
scenario is the basis for one of the key texts of queer culture the film version
of The Wizard of Oz from 1939 in the narrative an underappreciated adolescent
girl in the barren Midwest is whisked away to a fabulous land filled with color
and spectacle where she finds friends who value her more than her biological
family seems to funnily enough Walt Disney fought hard to get the film rights to
The Wizard of Oz but failed he would rarely let the rights to something he
wanted slip through his fingers ever again another narrative strand in Disney's
films that would have a great appeal to the queer Community is the tale of the
outsider throughout the Studio's history Disney has consistently returned to the
stories about characters who don't fit in to society unlike the heroins of
lfrank bomb's Oz these characters do not find another world to escape to and
must confront their ostracization rebuffed by The Gatekeepers of what is normal
and decent these rejects eventually find acceptance and Happiness by discovering
a use for those aspects of themselves that were originally thought to be
deficient or abnormal Hans Christian Anderson now recognized as gay himself
provided what is probably the archetypal version of the story The Ugly Duckling
which was adapted by Disney twice in 1930 and again in 19 39 there are two early
Disney shorts about Outsiders though that are more easily read as specifically
gay texts and delightfully affirming of otherness the first of these is the
Oscar winning short Ferdinand the Bull from 1937 the cartoon tells the story of
a young bull who is content to spend his life just sitting quietly and smelling
the flowers rather than going after other more conventionally masculine Pursuits
while Ferdinand has never shown having romantic interest in another bull the
character's quiet affection for flowers Associates him with images of gay men in
American culture at the time you see in the 1920s and 30s gay men were
frequently referred to as pansies or buttercups interestingly the short never
seems to suggest that Ferdinand is somehow depraved or deserving of contempt for
his desires although his mother wants to know why he doesn't want to run and
leap and butt heads like the other young Bulls she accepts her son's lifestyle
without much second thought Ferdinand is never shown racked with guilt over his
implied homosexuality or worried about what others may think of him on the
contrary the cartoon continually shows close-ups of him batting his long
eyelashes and sighing slowly and contentedly neither the narrator nor the visual
design of the film ever judge Ferdinand is somehow wrong rather there's a
bemused acceptance of ferdinand's attitude this delight and acceptance of an
effeminate male recurs in The Reluctant Dragon 1941 if anything the eminency of
the titular Reluctant Dragon is even more pronounced than ferdinand's like the
bull the dragon Sports long emotive eyelashes and contains not an aggressive
bone in his body with the dragon prancing and pouting throughout the story yet
unlike the bull the dragon has a voice now boy now boy just run along tell the
child to go home a high pitched masculine voice with the accent of an English
Dandy in fact the dragon's long black fluffy ears often droop around the sides
of his face in an approximation of Oscar wild rather than fight battles with
knights this Dragon wants to play music hold high tea and write poetry at one
point the dragon is specifically referred to as a punk poet at a time when the
common slang definition for Punk was homosexual male this phrase is repeated
about five times in one 15-second period of the short one of his poems owed to
an upside down cake is filled with double on Tandra about sexual revers sweet
little upside down cake cares and woes you got them poor little upside down cake
your top is on your bottom alas little upside down cake your troubles never stop
because little upside down cake your bottoms on your top a young boy who fancies
himself an expert on Knights and Dragons warns the dragon that a knight has been
hired by the town thinking that the dragon is as ferocious as the Legends tell
but both the boy and the dragon are surprised to find that the Knight or Giles
is as much a tea lover and poetry writer as the dragon is the cartoon introduces
both figures similarly caught taking baths by the boy and their figures
contrasting sharply with the manly heroic illustrations contained in the boy's
book sir Giles and the dragon agree to Stage a mock battle in order to please
the town the battle consists of hiding in caves or in Smoke and dust where the
two have tea and at one point Walt with each other while yelping and Howling for
the benefit of the audience there is no mistaking how the film makes fun of the
dragon's mincing Manner and prissy pretensions yet the film also makes it quite
clear that the dragon does not believe in fighting and the film doesn't
specifically make fun of him for that made just before the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor many in the United States were also trying to keep from fighting
and consequently would not quickly dismiss the dragon strongly held beliefs just
as in Ferdinand the Bull The Reluctant Dragon presents an easily red gay
character under the guise of fantasy and shows characters accepting him as he is
these fantasies of acceptance earned Walt Disney a lot of Praise in the early
days of animation showing children that it's okay to be a little different but
children weren't the only people partaking in these fantasies queer adults come
to Fantasy with a knowledge that children for the most part don't have at the
same time that gay individuals Revel in the affirmations and opened
possibilities that fantasy creates there is also an awareness and acceptance of
the impossibility of fantasy as well as the absurdity of it all Cassandra Amy's
concept of double reading although written in regard to Media fandom in general
also applies to a queer subject position amsley writes that a reader can
maintain and understand two Divergent points of view at once and use them to
inform each other in this way identification and distinction may occur
simultaneously there's an irony in the existence of queer fantasy a simultaneous
Indulgence in and distancing from the work being engaged in a queer person can
sit through Snow White and dream about being taken away from their drab life to
a castle on a hill but they can also enjoy the absurdity of Snow White's
grotesquely warbling contralto Michael Brony sees such a double reading in JM
Barry's Peter Pan while conventionally thought of as a children's story bronsky
describes it as a deeply disturbing meditation on the impossible desire for
flight not so much a fantasy of Escape as it is a cleare eyed exposure of
escape's impossibility the original 1904 play ends with Peter alone and Barry
adds to the stage directions it has something to do with the riddle of his being
if he could get the hang of the thing his cry might become to live would be an
awfully big adventure but he can never quite get the hang of it and so no one is
as gay as he fantasy often walks hand inand with camp one of the cornerstones of
queer culture Susan sag declared in her influential article notes on Camp that
camp was a way of looking at things a quality discoverable in objects and the
behavior of persons most importantly for this discussion sag observes that camp
is essentially role playing taking on the appearance of something that you're
not and amping up that depiction to an 11 Camp by focusing on the outward
appearance of a role implies that rols and in particular gender roles are
superficial a matter of style the fascination that many gay men have with Disney
villains is precisely over how they theatrically perform their gender roles to
the point where the naturalness of their gender can be called into question
although the vengeful queen in Snow White and the evil sorceress Maleficent and
Sleeping Beauty are OB stens gendered female they both wear clothing that
completely covers almost every in of their bodies including cowls or hoods that
cover their heads only their hands and face are exposed leaving the rest of the
body cloaked their faces both have highly defined features etched cheekbones
thin sharp noses strongly set Jaws in contrast to the softer designs of the
heroins and they also seem to have access to makeup especially mascara and ey
Shadow although crille in 101 Dalmations is not clothed like these two
characters her facial design fits perfectly into this description in other words
these villainesses are drag queens Maleficent moves with grand sweeps of her
cape and long flowing gown and Strikes magnificent diva-like poses it should
also be mentioned that all her movements and poses are timed to the highly
emotive Melodies of chaikovsky version of Sleeping Beauty a gay composer himself
she also gets a number of well-placed piy lines of dialogue she makes a stunning
entrance into the celebration of Aurora's birth then regards the Royal pageant
as if it were a Kiki W quite a glittering assemblage King Sten she observes
coldly royalty nobility the Gentry and she says pausing to notice the three good
fairies how qut even the rebel Sleeping Beauty's Maleficent actively Works to
spoil two generations of heterosexual coupling the film begins with the
convention of a book opening to announce once upon a time during this overtly
narrated introduction strong emphasis is placed on procreation particularly on
the king and queen's difficulties in having a child the story proper begins with
the Countrywide celebration of the birth of the Princess Aurora when Maleficent
arrives she is informed quite bluntly you weren't wanted Maleficent retaliates
in the the most dramatic way possible by placing a death sentence on the child
to be fulfilled on her 16th birthday in this way she attempts to take away the
procreative success of the king and queen and kill the princess just at the
moment when she herself would be about to explore heterosexual courtship
elsewhere in Disney Cannon Cruella Deville is not only a fashion icon who serves
Safari realness every single day but she similarly sweeps into every scene like
a grand Dom making a stage entrance for an enthusiastic crowd constantly
carrying an absurdly long cigarette holder she uses it repeatedly to further
overemphasize every gesture and inflection no movement or line of dialogue is
subtle or underplayed instead every damn moment is played to the cheap seats
whether trying to write out a check for the dalmatian puppies or driving her
Roadster down a mountain Road Cruella overdoes everything all these inflections
seem to be attempts by the character to show show her astounding Chic and
cultured femininity yet in her attempt to be the epitome of feminine glamour she
consistently and quite hilariously points out the concept of gender as
roleplaying Cruella is also a single woman who has a fascination with Anita they
were friends in the past or at least Cella believed them to be friends but they
seem to have had a falling out or at least a distancing when Anita went and
found herself a man a man Cruella truly low one could argue that her desire for
a dalmati spotted coat doesn't really arrive until she comes to the conclusion
that Anita will likely not be in her life anymore something to remember her by
or a way of punishing her this is barely subtext of course and I wouldn't claim
that the writers intended a lesbian reading of the two women but it's easy
enough to superimpose such context on top of the more blatant messaging of the
film a feminist reading of the Disney classic and of much of early Disney
princess Canon as a whole can be quite disturbing the eil Queen the queen of
hearts and Maleficent in particular older single women who have an obsession
with a much younger girl this was a common view of lesbians at the time in
mainstream culture older women who had never managed to find a man and so were
trying to foist their saffic perversions onto young innocent women these Disney
villains wanting to kill the girls in question is easily explainable too since
most families would consider their daughters dead to them if they did turn out
to be lesbians what fate could possibly be worse than losing your daughter in
such a way surely death would be preferable at least then you'd get sympathy
from the other people in your suburb instead of learing looks from other
families at the grocery store it must be her parents fault she turned out that
way is far worse than I'm sorry for your loss I know this sounds extreme and God
knows it is but that wasn't an uncommon opinion of families in the 50s and 60s
lesbians actually had it much harder than men when it came to family Dynamics
because if you had a gay son who was single well he was just a bachelor not
finished playing the field you could come up with an excuse for him not having
met the right girl yet you could hide it but a daughter single at 30 something
was obviously wrong with her so what excuse could you give nothing socially
acceptable for sure and so single older women became the go-to for villains in
the Golden Age of Disney movies they could easily adapted Swan Lake and had a
truly menacing male villain but that lingered in development hell and never got
made by Disney The Swan Princess from 1994 was actually made by new line Cinema
even though a lot of people attribute it to Disney same goes for Fox's Anastasia
in 1997 though I guess Anastasia technically is owned by Disney now H anyway
back to the Gaze the fishness of Honest John the fox and figuro the cat in
Pinocchio make them easily read as a gay couple also in Pinocchio there's the
storyline of young boys being abducted by an older man to be used in shocking
ways Captain Hook the villain of Peter Pan was a classic case of the [ __ ]
stereotype so prevalent in movies at the time hook attempts to hide his deviant
villainy behind the refined airs commonly associated with the English Dandy hook
speaks and moves fluidly as if every action was high melodrama he also dresses
the part of a Dandy introduced holding two cigars and a long gold cigarette
holder he wears a lavender blouse with ruffles later as he prepares for battle
His companion Shmi helps him Dawn a purplish plumed hat and provides hook with a
lavender handkerchief to stuff into his shirt sleeve though Cutthroat the
Pirates under Hook's command are not above singing about the pleasures of being
a pirate while dancing and waving tiny pirate flags and wiggling their hips in
precision like chorus girls Shmi is constantly at Hook's side and although Hook
is the maniacal Master of the relationship Shmi is obviously the emotional rock
that keeps hook balanced whenever hook encounters the crocodile that took his
hand he wailes for Shmi like a true Queen while hook battles with Peter Shmi
loads up the Lifeboat in anticipation of defeat in a most revelatory scene Shmi
advises hook to hoist anchor and head to Sea you know there treble Brewing on
the island women treble and he doesn't want any part of that both Honest John
and Captain Hook are represented as using their culture dandism to hide their
evil intentions and both are focused on young boys similarly Shir Khan in The
Jungle Book also moves and speaks in an over civilized manner yet again with the
intention of luring a young boy away from safety voiced with exceptional
archness by English actor George Sanders Shir Khan is introduced stalking a
young deer and when he's interrupted he merely mutters what beastly luck his
prospects brighten though when he overhears of a young manb who is wandering
alone in the jungle he whispers to himself how delightful and vows to arrange a
rendevu with the boy as he searches Through the Jungle he plays the total
gentleman although K the snake bitterly points out oh who does he think he's
fooling it looks like shiran isn't as good at playing it straight as he thinks
unlike honest JN and Captain Hook though shiran does exude serious Menace he is
not an underling for a more threatening villain as honest JN was and although
witty he's never portrayed as a buffoon as hook invariably was rather even the
most Whimsical of the Tigers lines contain an underlying Threat by the time of
his death in 1966 Walt Disney had already had discussions with the FBI about the
possibility of making educational films to warn children about the danger of the
quote homosexual pedophile while it's impossible to draw a direct connection
between these meetings and the sudden serious villainy of sheer Khan it is easy
to see how a Disney villain suddenly becoming actually scary and Walt's
animosity toward the queer Community might have had some connection the LGBT
community was no longer a silly subgroup to be vilified and made fun of we were
becoming a louder voice in the growing fight for civil rights which frightened
conservatives like Walt though he wouldn't live to see it the Stonewall riots
took place only 2 years after the release of the Jungle Book before his death
Walt seemed mostly unaware of the queer employees who worked under him there
were always people at Disney who self-identified as gay yet Society at large
made most of these people hide their sexual orientation from others things were
no less secretive during the first half of the Century on the Disney lot than
anywhere else and with just cause an anecdote from the production of Fantasia
describes the general attitude towards homosexuality during this time animator
art babbit recalled I started taking piano lessons after the film opened Walt
heard about it and in the presence of maybe 50 people at a story meeting he said
I understand you're studying the piano I said yeah that's true he said well what
the hell's the matter with you are you some kind of actors weren't immune to
Walt's homophobia either Tommy Kirk began as a juvenile actor in some of
Disney's TV shows and films playing one of The Hardy Boys on the Mickey Mouse
Club and then starring an Old Yeller and the Shaggy Dog the inordinate success
of both films made Kirk a hot commodity at the studio Kirk himself remembers
Walt Disney's introducing the youngster to head a hopper as his good luck kid
when the 1960s started Kirk had become the most promising male actor under
contract to the studio and was often paired with the Studio's reigning female
star Anette Funicello Kirk's promising future ended quickly though I was 18 Kirk
recalled to an interviewer in the 1990s it was around this time that Kirk seemed
to recall accepting that he was gay yet for a young and easily recognized actor
during the early 1960s there were very few Avenues to explore this part of his
personality without adverse attention anyway I was young and I had money he
recounted I started fooling around and I got involved with a boy we saw each
other maybe three times once at a public pool in Burbank the boy's parents found
out and went to see Walt at the studio Kirk was summoned to the studio to speak
directly with Disney while Kirk tried to stammer out an explanation he was
informed that his contract had been terminated no criminal charges were placed
on Kirk and the firing much less the reasons for the firing was never discussed
in the press such a lack of reaction seems to suggest that the studio dealt with
both the parents of the other boy as well as the press to keep the story Under
Wraps when Kirk returned to the Walt Disney Studio in 1984 as a part of the
Mickey Mouse Club reunion he discovered that his reputation still preceded him
according to Kirk an employee from Disney's publicity Department told him if I
had my way all you people would be buried in the same grave after Walt's death
the Disney Company seemed rudderless the new leadership couldn't seem to produce
the kind of magic Walt had at his prime or even in his waning years that would
change though in the 1980s with the introduction of the new executive team of
Michael Eisner Frank Wells and Jeffrey kenberg one of their first Ventures was
to take Disney into a more adult Realm by creating subsidiaries like Hollywood
pictures and touchtone entertainment down in out in Beverly Hills was the first
R-rated film Disney ever released B Midler swears throughout the film and
screams so loudly during an orgasm that everyone in the entire household hears
also included are scenes of Midler's husband played by Richard dfus and their
house guest Nick Noti having sex with the Latina Maid of the house and there are
overt hints that the son of the family is gay older Disney Executives gritted
their teeth but the film went on to make $62 million in 1986 that's $148 million
today following in the film's footsteps Ruthless People was another runchy
comedy with B Midler that went on to take in$ 71.6 million Thomas pasiteri an
openly gay composer and orchestrator who arranged scores for some of Disney's
films at the time described the music department as so gay friendly that when
one straight artist was let go from a project he threat threatened to sue the
studio for sexual discrimination against heterosexuals but being hired and being
appreciated were two different things at a time when all the studios and major
tech companies began offering domestic partnership benefits to their LGBT
employees gay Disney employees began calling for the same thing while at a
charity event an apple executive cornered Michael Eisner in order to discuss
domestic partner benefits and why Disney was lagging behind Eisner reportedly
stated that it would simply cost too much money since he figured about 40% of
Disney's Workforce was LGBT Disney did have one employee who was out and who
they couldn't convince to go back into the closet though Lyricist Howard Ashman
the man who created the award-winning soundtracks for The Little Mermaid Beauty
and the Beast and Aladdin reportedly Disney Executives were frustrated with
Ashman being so publicly out but his growing clout made it impossible to do
anything about it but but sadly in March of 1991 Ashman passed away from
complications related to AIDS later that year Beauty and the Beast would go on
to become a box office sensation and become the first animated movie to ever be
nominated for Best Picture its main competition for best picture was seen to be
the Silence of the Lambs which was being protested against by the LGBT community
for its portrayal of psychopath Buffalo Bill Disney saw an opening to win over
the gay community and made a giant Don to the aid for AIDS Foundation the
seemingly altruistic Act was later confirmed to be nothing more than a PR stunt
as the money had come out of Beauty and the beast's award campaign budget Disney
saw it as nothing more than a 4-year consideration ad when the Oscars rolled
around Disney lost best picture to Silence of the Lambs and when Howard ashman's
partner Bill lock took to the stage to accept the Oscar for best song on his
late partner's behalf Disney Executives reportedly fumed Disney's animosity
toward the queer Community wasn't just all behind the scenes though it still
managed to make it onto the big screen beginning immediately with the first film
of the Disney Renaissance The Little Mermaid the film Source material was
obviously written by noted gay writer Hans Christian Anderson so there's an
immediate queer reading of the text available but Disney went further than that
by carrying on their tradition of having an older female villain who is
predatory toward a young girl but to add a special twist Ursula was is actually
modeled after drag Legend Divine though despite rumors Disney never entertained
the thought of offering the part to Divine and always intended on casting a
female voice Talent recent calls for the live action Ursula to be played by a
drag queen were roundly ignored Disney also never intended Ursula to sing in the
film but Howard Ashman thought otherwise forcing Disney to accept the now iconic
villain song Poor Unfortunate Souls in the number Ursula uses various meth
methods to convince Ariel to sell her soul from looking sorry and Saint likee to
shimmying madly in excitement in its use of vocalist pack Carl's ability to
slide up and down the musical register from shrieks to baritones Poor
Unfortunate Souls is an unmistakable send up of the campy female impersonation
numbers of underground queer films in the early days of Hollywood I was shocked
to learn that a queer reading of Beauty and the Beast was actually pretty well
documented in popular culture at the time of its release not just comparing
Gaston to the gay muscle queens that had become so well known in large Urban
centers mostly because it was believed that high muscle mass would help you
fight off the effects of HIV but the Beast himself became an AIDS allegory in
the mainstream press with Dan Rather writing an article in the LA Times that
read think of the spell as aids with the same arbitrary and harshly abbreviated
limitations on time and you feel the beast's loneliness and Desperation a little
more deeply he's just a guy trying as hard as he can to find a little meaning a
Little Love a Little beauty while he still got a little life left the visual
contrast made between the deteriorated form of the Beast and the painting of him
as a beautiful young man possibly sets up a stereotypical opposition between
ugliness and Beauty reminiscent of Oscar Wild's The Picture of Dorian Gray but
in this context the ugliness beauty diad also supports attention crucial to the
film's AIDS allegory between the issue of having health and not having it
certainly the lyrics written for the Mob song in which the villagers set out to
attack the Beast add to this method of the interpretation in the song the
villagers clearly State we don't like what we don't understand in fact it scares
us and thus they must save their families and their lives by killing the Beast
the quotation reverberates strongly as a parallel to AIDS Panic that many
individuals as well as religious and political groups Express during the spread
of the disease a sizable majority of Americans believes that no segment of the
general population will be spared Aid you know this felt like it this felt like
the end of the world I I've had the opportunity again to kind of revisit the
reason why I'm still working at such a late age is because I didn't plan for
retirement just like everybody else I thought I was going to be dead to Disney's
credit the Mob song Taps into the demonization of people with AIDS but its
placement in the film definitely sides with the demonized rather than the
lynchers whether this was ashman's own coded messaging that flew under Disney's
radar or was sanctioned by the mouse it's still worth noting as queer scholar
Harry benof notes recent critical essays in the mass media have demonstrated how
the representational codes and narrative tropes of the monster movie have been
grafted onto much television and newspaper coverage of AIDS the Beast has given
the lifespan of a magical Rose to find a cure to his curse someone to love that
will love him in return and although missing the deadline means only that he'll
remain a beast permanently The Narrative contrives to have him at the brink of
death just as the last Petal Falls from the flower this messaging was adopted by
many people hospitalized with the disease at the time those who knew they were
near death would ask for a pink rose to sit on their bedside a beautiful ticking

<!-- Todd's comment about the "pink rose" being red was considered and deemed far too insignificant to even include. -->

clock counting down to when they too would be lost forever lesbian and gay
employees of the theme parks remarked on how many of their friends with AIDS
desired to visit Disneyland and Walt Disney World one last time also many AIDS
quilt panels include Disney imagery Mouse ears Disney song lyrics and the like
some panels commemorate Disney employees lost while some paid tribute to a Fan's
Devotion to the Studio's products such dedication to a magical brand that used
their suffering to win Oscars with Howard Ashman gone many at Disney worried
that the magic might have been lost Howard is referred to by Roy Disney as
another Walt which shocked me when I was interviewing him of all people why
would Roy say this about Howard Ashman but he was to us and to our generation he
was a Walt Disney type and I think Howard Ashman was the key to much of our
success but Executives steamrolled ahead with their next big animated film
Aladdin with some of the songs for the film having been completed by Ashman
before his death they felt secure in its prospects gay employees especially were
excited because Ashman had managed to insert even more of his Camp sensibilities
into Aladdin than either mermaid or beast especially when it came to the genie
played by lifelong queer Ally Robin Williams just as critics noticed that some
aspects of these new Disney animated features were for savier audiences they
wondered what will children make of a film whose main character character the
genie himself has such obvious parental appeal they won't know precisely what Mr
Williams is evoking while Robin Williams impromptu recording sessions did a lot
of the heavy lifting for the final character of the genie ashman's songs for him
had been written long before Williams was even signed and the character that
Ashman creates through his lyrics definitely portrays an overblown Larger than
Life gay tinged figure the genie first appears in a huge production number
centered around him telling Aladdin yes sir throughout the song the genie Zips
from one metaphor to another with endless enthusiasm sprinkling his speech with
phrases like true dish later as Aladdin enters the palace disguised as Prince
Ali the genie promotes him shamelessly by pointing out and describing how he got
all doled up and dropped by while these examples tend to promote reading the
genie as a gay male the character's manic nature often spills Beyond this simple
category epitomizing what is truly a queer figure while casting Williams makes
the genie extensively male he rapidly shifts into a number of caricatures of
famous people William F Buckley grouo Marx Ethel Morman Jack Nicholson and
arcenio Hall amongst others and even gets in drag multiple times a flight
attendant a Herm girl a cheerleader he displays overt male heterosexuality 1
second as Arnold Schwarzenegger then a caricature of homosexual it in the next
second is a swishy tailor measuring Aladdin for his Prince Ali outfit everything
is overemphasized the hersfield inspired drawings the hyperkinetic voice of
Williams and its pasted Lightning Fast the overabundance of transformation
flaunts the instability of identity in the viewer's face hilariously critiquing
theories of essentialism in the process it is all just another costume for the
genie to put on and discard acknowledging the queerer nature of the genie though
it is much easier to appreciate him from a gay male perspective particularly in
his relationship with Aladdin as mentioned at one point the genie transforms
into a prissy gay tailor mincing as he advises snipp first that Fez and vest
combo is much to third Century these patches what are we trying to say beggar no
let's work with me here during one emotional High Point in the narrative the
genie tells Aladdin oh well I'm getting kind of fond of you kid not that I want
to pick out curtains or anything the final ful clinch at the end of the film is
not between Aladdin and the Princess Jasmine but between Aladdin and the genie
the gay male aspects of Aladdin go much further than just the presence of the
genie though animator Andreas DOA has admitted to drawing Jafar to be
specifically a gay character flipping the script on the older single woman
praying on a young girl to the even more toxic image of an older gay man praying
on a teenage boy this was wrer around the time that the public at large became
aware of nbla or the North American manboy love Association so the timing was a
bit problematic the group actually used images from Aladdin in their messaging
at the time a bold move considering how litigious Disney can be it's not
shocking though what with both the genie and Jafar being obsessed with how
Aladdin looks in fact the studio itself worked endlessly to create a visually
pleasing body and face for Aladdin something that ended up creating the first
animated Crush for a lot of young gay boys out there Disney's animators were
accustomed to creating beautiful female figures with large eyes small waists
pleasing soft curvs yet the animation Department also had a history of less
success creating visually pleasing male characters especially during Walt's
tenure except for Prince Phillip who doesn't love Prince Phillip with Aladdin
then Disney's animators were faced with creating an objectified male body most
critics agree that the various princes accompanying princesses seem wooden and
are usually absent from the screen due to their lack of appeal in fact until
Aladdin only Peter Pan had been successful in presenting a male figure that came
close to the appeal of Snow White or her counterparts well maybe Robin Hood with
ashman's involvement in Aladdin being cut short by his death certain Concepts he
held for the project ended up dropped or Modified by the studio one major change
was the elimination of the character of Aladdin's mother for whom Ashman had
written the song proud of your boy to declaring her love for her son no matter
how he lives his life this owed to maternal love attempted to tell Aladdin not
to be ashamed of himself or want to be someone else just to make people accept
him its message isn't exactly subtle so of course Disney cut it although Aladdin
became an orphan in the final version of the film would it be a Disney movie if
there weren't orphans his self-hatred and desire to become someone else still
figur strongly into the narrative he pretends to be Prince Ali in order to find
a new life in which he is welcomed and adored by Society instead of being called
down to the lowest a street rat Aladdin must learn to accept himself for who he
is before the narrative can reach its conventional happy ending some producers
of Aladdin have claimed the queer coding in the film was entirely accidental and
in fact it's so subtle that a lot of people don't pick it up but with ashman's
involvement writing the songs and helping to develop the story after being
diagnosed with AIDS knowing it might be his last project I'm willing to bet that
the coding is there on purpose in Disney's Next animated feature we wouldn't get
a sea drag queen an AIDS allegory or a campy Genie instead we got accidental gay
parents and yet another queer coded villain but before then Disney accidentally
produced an iconic entry into the queer cinematic Canon with Hocus Pocus no gay
coding here though I always hoped Zary Binks was gay just three campy witches
that would go on to inspire Generations upon generations of drag queens now to
the Lions though we may not remember it The Lion King was pretty controversial
upon release Disney's return to the main stage of Animation in the early 90s
with the little mermaid had pissed off a lot of feminists who were a gas that
Disney made a movie in which the female lead literally has her voice stolen from
her to fix this they made Bell a very proactive intelligent character in Beauty
and the Beast then they received a huge amount of backlash from arab-americans
after the release of Aladdin for some less than sensitive lyrical choices and
having an all-white voice cast to fix this they made sure to hire actors of
color to voice characters in The Lion King but again they ran into problems
Robert gume was cast as Rafiki who was immediately deemed an Uncle Tom character
while whoopy Goldberg and chich Marin were cast as bumbling villains Simba is
White Scar is white Timone and Pumba are white with the exception of James ear
jones as Mufasa most of the lead characters were voiced by white actors
something that did not please Disney's African-American fans but with all the
talk of race many people missed the queer messaging in the film with songs by
Elton John and an ad campaign that included cartoon characters saying that the
film was to die for a term that was just making its way out of the ballroom
culture and into the mainstream there seemed to be plenty for gay Audi is to
enjoy contrary to the complaints of non-visibility by women Arab Americans and
African-Americans gay animals could be found quite easily in the film gay male
animals voiced by white actors the adviser to The Lion King is a fussy and
pompous bird named Zazu who seems to be modeled after queer actor Clifton Webb
Tona Pumba a mircat and a warthog that Simba befriends after he is banished from
his pride can easily be read as a gay couple they live happily together reving
in their marginalization from the rest of jungle society and look disapprovingly
at Simba's buding heterosexual romance voiced by out actor Nathan Lane Timone
has the personality of a New York drag queen all patter and shtick and ready to
burst into a show tune at the drop of a hat while Pumba depends on tone
constantly the most obvious queer figure in the film though of course is the
villain scar voiced by Jeremy Irons who portrays a physically weak scoundrel who
makes up for his lack of sheer strength with catty remarks and Insidious
plotting the character swishes about and shows disdain at the concept of a
heterosexual family as he plots to take the throne for himself when Scar refers
to Simba as a hairball Mufasa warns that hairball is my son and your future king
oh I shall practice my cury later when Simba laughs and tells scar you're so
weird you have no idea while Disney's villains have routinely veered toward Camp
the signifiers that seem to Ally scar with homosexuality have an added dose of
Menace after the viewer enjoys his dry gay wit in the opening sections of the
film he sings a musical number that becomes an animated version of the nurmberg
rallies with scar at the podium as hyena henchman Goose step and perfect Cadence
before him the color scheme turns monochromatic during this section furthering
the similarities to the Lenny reeny Nazi prop Anda of the Triumph of the will
unlike other Disney villains scar actually kills someone even the evil queen and
Snow White didn't manage to do that his Reign Over The Kingdom seems to directly
cause Dro pestilence and the general destruction of the ecosystem it is only
with the restoration of Simba to the throne that the land comes back to life in
a dissolve that makes the change seem miraculously immediate Scar's unforgivable
sin seems to be his refusal to support the heterosexual patriarchy that Simba
and his father represent this social system is canonized during the film's
opening number The Circle of Life while scar actively defies the social order
celebrated in this number the other gay figures help the young straight lion and
are not seen as monsters mainly because they view him as the rightful ruler of
the land sazu Timone and Pumba all Aid Simba in his quest to reestablish his
claim to the throne endorsing his divine right this would fit directly into how
establishment liberals in America like the queers to behave fit into the already
established social roles and everything will be okay pedge got to run for
president because he was essentially a straight man with a husband Suburban home
two dogs no children yet but surely they'll be on their way by 2024 fitting into
exactly what heteronormative Society expects but scar doesn't fit that mold
refuses to fit into that mold and so he's looked down upon by the other Lions
basically excommunicated from the pride and since he doesn't fit the mold he's
portrayed as a Nazi Hitler himself in fact with all the mincing mannerisms that
Hitler has been mocked for over the years while the lion king became a massive
hit Disney had to add gay men to the list of people unhappy with their product
Johnny Harris wrote about his feelings on scars betrayal for the Christopher
Street periodical on a deep level The Lion King dramatizes the danger of single
affected males to any society implying that they have the power to destroy an
entire civilization this is of course the message that Pat Robertson and Pat
Buchanan routinely sign off on in order to scapegoat homosexuals for such
heterosexual problems as abortion single mothers and the high divorce rate
Harris also noted in his review the possible racist implications of the hyenas
an aspect that Todd Hayward analyzed in great deal for an article in the West
Hollywood gayzine Planet homo unlike the film which conceives of race gender and
sexuality as mutually exclusive Concepts Hayward links the negative racial and
gender connotations with issues of sexuality writing Disney's moral hierarchy
has implications which are damaging to all of us who lie outside the mainstream
hayward's analysis explicitly displays how queer activism and Theory counters
concepts of the gay consumer with the recognition that not all homosexuals are
white upscale men with the money or inclination to support Disney's product
readers may be asking themselves but if you substitute Disney's Simplicity with
relativity and if you make good characters physically indistinguishable from Bad
characters or if you do away with all of the Lion King's polarizations of Good
and Evil then everyone in the theater has to come to his or her own conclusions
about the film's content to objections of this nature I respond with a
resounding good films that set up neat systems of Good and Evil dos and don'ts
are part of the pervasive simplemindedness that posits heterosexuality and
queered them as IR reconcilable opposites which cannot coexist respectfully
Disney continued their trend of coding villains queer with the release of 1996's
Pocahontas a film where every native male is portrayed as traditionally
masculine two spirit people do not exist and the villain is a flouncy rotund man
who wears pink velvet little bows in his hair and has a devoted male companion
on TV ABC a network owned by Disney used the coming out episode of Ellen as a
way to spike viewership during the May sweeps period to heighten ratings during
this period the network extended Diane Sawyer's interview with Ellen on Prime
Time live over two nights during the episode Disney advertised many of its big
summer movies as well as promoted other ABC shows furthermore within the show
itself Disney found a way to do some product placement when Ellen's therapist
asks her what she's going to do now that she's come out as a lesbian Ellen
parody's Disney's famous ad campaign and announces I'm going to Disneyland yet
the network refused to allow the Human Rights Campaign an LGBT rights
organization to buy time for a public service advertisement during the episode
when Ellen's ratings dropped after coming out ABC swiftly canceled the show
during the 1990s Disney's Parks also tried profiting from their LGBT fans by
creating gay night a one nighty year event at the parks where LGBT folk would be
the main guest it was a big hit and threatened boycotts against the company
never seemed to materialize initially the revenue was all to be donated to the
aid for AIDS Foundation but by 1995 donations to the charity had dried up and
Disney was keeping all of the profits for themselves in 1997 Disney committed
their First Act of straightwashing with the release of Hercules based very
Loosely on the Greek myth of Heracles the film overtly ignored the hero's
well-known bisexuality as well as his yurdal mood swings and once again codes
the villain gay this time making Hades the lord of the underworld one of the few
Olympian Gods Not to have taken a male lover into yet another mincing older man
like scar with intentions of usurping the Throne of power from his
heteronormative brother hades's only relationship with a woman in the film is
with herk's love interest Meg for whom he fills the role of Stanford blch to her
Cary Bradshaw this one is different he's honest and and he's sweet he would
never do anything to hurt me he's a guy all of the other overtly gay sections of
Greek myth and the Heracles myth itself are completely ignored of course as it
is with almost all incarnations of the Hero Stories in modern media not that
anyone expected anything different from Disney queer audiences never really
expected anything from the mouse at this point even the interesting coding
inserted by Howard Ashman had dried up since his death so it was a pleasant
surprise when in 1998 Mulan had theaters these lyrics from the song reflection
say it all look at me I will never pass for a Perfect Bride or a perfect
daughter can it be I'm not meant to play this part now I see that if I were
truly to be myself I would break my family's heart who is that girl I see
staring straight back at me why is my reflection someone I don't know somehow I
cannot hide who I am though I've tried when will my reflection show who I am
inside Disney's Mulan is however unintentionally a queer narrative that explores
both gender identity and sexual orientation it is not as it is often
simplistically described a story about a disempowered woman who becomes
empowered by masculinity it is a story about a young person who doesn't fit the
rigid constructs of Womanhood or manhood and who must instead carve her own path
mulan's gender Journey over the course of of the movie feels very familiar to
many trans and non-binary people first in honor to us all the village women
attempt to sculpt Mulan into an ideal woman more specifically an ideal wife
Mulan fails the test of Womanhood when her meeting with the Matchmaker goes
horribly arai as Mulan acknowledges this failure in reflection she poses a
question that most trans people know intimately when will my reflection show who
I am inside many trans men in particular feel a kinship with Mulan as the
character prepares to convince everyone they're a man practicing their Swagger
affecting their voice to a lower register and scrambling to settle on a boy name
in I'll Make a Man Out of You Mulan as ping progressively Works their way toward
achieving manhood which is divined by catching fish carrying heavy things and of
course wielding a big stick they later fail the test of manhood when they or she
is revealed as a woman or rather as someone who is not a man ultimately Milan is
able to defeat the Bad Guys by playing on their misperception of her gender
through a queer lens the message of Disney's Mulan is something many people
learned as they come into their trans or non-binary identity by rejecting
society's limited ideals of Womanhood and manhood you can become your more
authentic self then there's leang the handsome young General Who falls for both
ping and Mulan and who has been memeified as a bisexual icon and so in the
upcoming live action adaptation of Mulan the songs have been removed so no
reflection or I'll Make a Man Out of You and leang has been removed entirely
wouldn't want anyone queering up a possible billion dollar hit now would we
Disney went into a prolonged slump with the birth of the New Millennium only the
Pirates of the Caribbean franchise seemed to be keeping the studio afloat and
even then when the first film was in production it was giving Executives heart
problems the dailies coming in of Johnny Depp playing Jack Sparrow as at least
questioningly queer put Michael Eisner under so much stress he literally had a
heart attack in an interview after the film's release Depp said it trickled back
to me that Michael Eisner went on some sort of bent about how godamn it Johnny
Depp's ruining the film what is that thing is it drunk is it gay what the [ __ ]
are you doing he'd asked when they asked me if if he was gay I said didn't you
know all my characters are gay I really expected to be fired but I wasn't for
some reason the film and its sequels went on to be big hits for the studio for
the most part the new blood of 1980s Disney had all left the company by the time
the Pirates sequel started coming out Jeffrey kenberg left the company to start
DreamWorks with Steven Spielberg and David geffin Michael Eisner stepped down in
a swirl of controversy and Frank Wells died in a helicopter crash in 2005 Bob
Iger took over the position of CEO at Disney the company was Under New
Management for the first time in 20 years Iger was well known in political
circles as a progressive on social issues and had spearheaded multiple
initiatives while working under Michael Eisner to increase the rights of LGBT
employees at Disney and to empower LGBT Disney fans under his stewardship Disney
switched from the once a year gay night at Disney parks to the full Gay Days
event rebranding the occasion into a more familyfriendly affair with the
intention of helping bring LGBT families into the mainstream he was vocally
opposed to George W Bush's crusade to ban gay marriage and donated to the Obama
for president campaign in 2008 under the caveat that Obama not defend the
defensive Marriage Act or don't ask don't tell if he were to make it into office
Obama agreed leading to both homophobic laws being overturned queer Disney
stands were excited for iger's takeover of the company having such a vocal
supporter of LGBT rights as the head of a company like Disney could only mean
good things when Iger went on a spending spree buying up properties such as
Marvel and Star Wars gay fans got excited to see if queer characters would make
their way into those franchises as we know from the last video they did not Iger
has been a benign CEO as far as LGBT representation goes while he hasn't allowed
major characters to come out as LGBT putting his foot down when Tao atiti
planned for valkyrie to be a lesbian and Thor Ragnarok he has allowed smaller
queer characters to appear such as the lodge owners in Frozen lefu in the Beauty
and the Beast remake Spectre in onward and a quick lesbian kiss in Star Wars
Episode 9 one could argue that he could have been vetoing all LGBT
representation like Disney CEOs before him that he could be actively opposing us
but I say that's a pretty pathetically low bar Disney is the preeminent media
provider right now with Pixar Star Wars Marvel Fox and their own original
properties it could be argued that they're growing a media Monopoly when I've
contributed to myself I was one of the people arguing for Disney to buy up Fox
so that we could finally get some good X-Men and Fantastic 4 movies that weren't
Logan also that they buy up Sony Pictures so that Spider-Man can stay in the MCU
but now that Disney does own Fox I have to wonder when they make their X-Men
movie will Iceman be straight again he came out of the closet in the comics a
few years ago with a really touching storyline will Disney do away with that for
a liveaction ican or will they simply keep him on the bench so they don't have
to deal with it at all now that Disney owns The Rocky Horror Picture Show what
will become of that will it continue to run as a midnight movie event or will
Disney pull the film home prints that are in circulation they're certainly
controlling over their copyrighted content so I can imagine they wouldn't be too
pleased with theaters showing the film without their say so an odd Ray of Hope
in Disney them is Kevin feige The Mastermind behind the MCU he's threatened to
quit before not over pay raises but over control of characters Disney gave in to
his demands and only once has stepped into to override his decision that being
valkyrie's queerness even with their attempted straightwashing the coding is
still so obvious it can barely be called coding his contract is once again
coming up for Renewal and it looks like Valkyrie will indeed be looking for her
Queen in Thor love and thunder a lesbian lead character in a potentially billion
dooll movie will make Disney execs quake in their Gucci loafers but worrying
over that might be worth keeping the Golden Goose that is Kevin feige the Young
Avengers featuring Marvel's Premier gay couple Wiccan and hulkling is reportedly
in development either e as a Disney Plus show or as a feature film hulkling
being the king of space and Wiccan being the center point for all existence in
the Marvel Universe makes them pretty much the ultimate superhero power couple
and briee Larsson has been very blunt in her opinion the Captain Marvel should
have a girlfriend in her sequel while Tom Holland will use any opportunity to
let reporters know that he thinks his Spider-Man needs a boyfriend so is it
possible for Disney via Marvel Studios to become the main source for LGBT rep
representation in Hollywood all because of one producer they're terrified to
lose it's a distinct possibility though the gay representation in Avengers
endgame was much maligned by LGBT audiences it was an interesting experiment the
scene is small and easily removable but Marvel refused to cut it for the film's
release in countries like China Russia and places in the Middle East calling the
bluff of those countries sensorship guidelines and since theater owners didn't
want to lose out on a Marvel movie The Scene stayed in effectively a positive
test run to see if fogy and Marvel could indeed get away with having queer
characters in Marvel movies even in countries where homosexuality may be
punishable by death but Marvel is the outlier at Disney no producer at Disney
has the power and influence that Kevin feige does and even he hasn't managed to
have an out queer main character in a film yet though we're apparently getting
one with the eternals if that ever gets released the house of mouse continued
use though to profit from its LGBT fan base while starving us for representation
so that we'll be satisfied by the scraps they see fit to toss us a queer
ascended extra or a blinking you miss it moment does not make up for everything
Disney has done it's a well-known fact among industry professionals that Mulan
was altered so drastically from its original animated form specifically to
appeal to the Chinese box office which is why any hint at by or trans
representation has been removed from the film even the Cod in at least according
to the people I know who have seen the movie and their Jungle Cruise movie has
an implied gay character that the test audiences found so offensive that the
movie Saw massive delays in order to re-shoot Giant sections of the film at the
Disney parks it's not uncommon to see Rainbow lace Disney shirts hats Mickey
ears pins bracelets and notebooks all kinds of merchandise they're more than
willing to sell us all sorts of stuff except a ticket to a movie with actual
representation they will happily take our money and slightly wink when we ask if
Elsa is a lesbian they'll sell us a movie ticket and shrug who knows when we ask
if Po and Finn will kiss they'll sign you up for a Year's membership to Disney
plus and then move L Victor to Hulu Disney is a company like any other they go
where the prophets are and they are drawn to those profits like a sharked blood
the thing is the LGBT community has been feeding them with no demand for
something in return they queer B Stucky finp and Elsa we still give them our
money they make a huge deal out of an exclusively gay moment just to give us two
seconds of two men dancing and we still give them our money they remove even the
gay coding from their remakes and we still give them our money is Disney the
worst company in the world no of course not it's not like they're fracking when
people leave the parks I've loved Disney for as long as I can remember the first
movie I saw in theaters was Aladdin my first crushes were Aladdin and Hercules I
knew for sure that I was 100% gay because I saw Tarzan swinging around half
naked and thought yep that's what I want Disney isn't Chick-fil-A or Hobby Lobby
it's not a hateful company and it's not a company most people can easily drop
from their lives Disney is a part of the culture now hell they've created a big
chunk of the culture that we live in so I'm not saying you need to stop seeing
Disney movies but I do think we need to send Disney a very strong message either
give us representation or don't stop the baiting stop the May and the who knows
and the Som days and stop promising us representation and then taking it away
this video began as a quick angry rant after Disney tried blocking my last video
from going up but it evolved into something else entirely I started looking into
the history of queerness in Disney movies and found a lot more than I was
expecting I shouldn't be surprised because of course it's there there's
queerness everywhere because we are everywhere we're storytellers and Artists
Craftsmen and animators composers lyricists Executives and producers we help run
the Disney parks and we're in costume at those Parks so of course we've found
our way into the history of Disney as employees and fans we represent Disney
every single day and it's about damn time Disney start representing [Music] us