---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/ufpkp6s_g_4"

date: 2020-08-30
title: Making It Big：The History of Gay Adult Film (Documentary)
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "Making It Big：The History of Gay Adult Cinema"
topics: !!seq
  - "Gay Porn"
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - hbomb
  - dec5-delete

# https://archive.org/details/biggerthanlifehi0000esco

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

Men, Murder, and Monopolies

"Making It Big" is a feature-length video essay about the history of gay erotic films in America. From Beefcake to bareback, this video explores the changing social attitudes surrounding porn, the people who made it happen, and the technological advances that made it all possible.

Based on the book "Bigger than Life" by Jeffrey Escoffier

Patreon: [link]

Twitter: [handle]

This video contains copyrighted material. The use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. I am making this material available in my efforts to further bring to light the history of LGBTQ+ representation in film and television. I believe this constitutes a fair use of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law.

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="04:34" for="Part 1: Beefcake" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="09:36" for="Part 2: Softcore Boiled" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="14:13" for="Part 3: Sex on the Beach" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="20:36" for="Part 4: Flight of the Falcon" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="25:38" for="Part 5: Aspen" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="30:31" for="Part 6: Catalina" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="35:54" for="Part 7: Sex in the Ruins" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="47:59" for="Part 8: Requiem" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="53:44" for="Part 9: More of a Man" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:01:30" for="Part 10: Cyber Sexuality" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:03:32" for="Part 11: Cobra" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:16:44" for="Part 12: Rise of the Geeks" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:22:11" for="Epilogue" %}  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

hardcore porn both of the straight and gay varieties entered mainstream american
culture in the 1970s as the sexual revolutions swept away many of the cultural
and moral inhibitions that had been keeping the country's proverbial knees
together surprisingly the first porn movie ever to be previewed by variety the
leading trade journal in the entertainment industry was boys in the sand from
1971 a sexually explicit gay movie shot on fire island with a budget of only
four thousand dollars moviegoers celebrities and critics flocked to see it
within a year deep throat a straight porno opened to rave reviews and a huge box
office exceeding that of many mainstream hollywood films though we can't know
exactly how much it made because it was financed by the mafia within two years
we saw the devil and miss jones and behind the green door hit theaters these
four movies made more money per screen than even the godfather which was
released around the same time though the sexual revolution that made these films
possible was at first a mostly heterosexual affair it also had a profound effect
on gay men the intense stigma attached to homosexuality before stonewall blocked
any open discussion of gay male sexuality and force gay men's sexual expression
deep underground consequently the increasing acceptance of pornography during
the 60s and 70s played a significant role in the sexual lives of gay men even
more than it did among the straight men of the same age the increasing social
acceptance of porn helped to legitimize visual representations of homoerotic
images and gay sex in general before 1962 homosexual materials even those
without any sexual content were considered obscene by definition in the us and
much of europe the emergence of gay hardcore films provided explicit
representations of gay's sexual behavior not otherwise available and the
availability of such images helped to affirm the nascent gay identity since most
gay men become adults without learning the social and sexual codes of their
community porn contributes as film critic richard dreyer has observed to their
education of desire erections orgasms and the performances of sexually desirable
masculine and energetic performers helped to create positive images of what gay
men could be instead of the holy negative images portrayed in mainstream culture
gay porn produced soon after stonewall focused heavily on masculine men since
the culturally accepted image of a gay man was that of the [ __ ] from hollywood
movies the artwork of toko vago laxonen better known as tama finland helped to
create the image of the hyper-masculine gay man that permeated gay culture in
the 1970s and gay porn movies sought to emulate these ideals with the men they
cast while it's by no means representative of the entire gay community these
masculine stars showed gay men both young and old that they could be more than
just hairdressers not that there's anything wrong with that if this pandemic has
taught us anything it's that we really ought to be appreciating our hairdressers
a lot more but these porn stars were plumbers carpenters cops firefighters
bikers and construction workers the type of men that gay men desired to be and
desired to have desire psychologists have found is not something given to us out
of the blue it is constructed through fantasy and it is through fantasy that we
learn how to desire pornographic movies are passports to a fantasy world where
sex exists without the everyday encumbrances of social convention endurance or
availability to imagine a sexual performance in a fantasy or to see one in a
porn movie enables us to experience sexual excitements without the side effects
of anxiety guilt boredom or danger and for many of us the erotic excitement is
heightened when the fantasy includes an element of risk sex in public sex with a
stranger sex without a condom or sex in front of a salad lets us explore these
fantasies but porn didn't suddenly pop up in the 1970s fully formed and hard as
a rock porn even gay porn has been around for a very long time now i'm not going
to get into cave paintings egyptian carvings or renaissance art though this is a
youtube video not a 10-part netflix documentary though netflix if you're
watching call me so let's start at the very beginning of modern gay porn i hear
it's a very good place to start [Music] it's the 1950s and you're walking down a
busy new york street you stop at a news stand and hidden amongst the news
cooking and culture magazines sits one or two issues of a physique magazine you
buy it the clerk stuffs it into a nondescript brown paper bag and you rush home
it started as an underground phenomenon with small magazines containing
photographs of almost nude men being sold by mail and on newsstands in larger
cities these physique magazines and the mail-order business that grew up around
them were the primary source of erotic male images for gay men receiving the
iconic nickname beefcake bob mizer an amateur photographer living in los angeles
played a major role in developing the business of publishing homoerotic images
at the time in post-world war ii america most photographs of nude men or
drawings of erotic scenes were available only through private networks to select
mail-order customers long aware of his attraction to men miser had taken nude
photographs of attractive male friends since he was a teenager and developed the
film in a closet set up as a dark room a few years later when mizer was
experimenting with grouping photos together it occurred to him to create a
magazine he decided to call it physique pictorial it featured photographs of
young men wearing only posing straps bathing suits or loincloths and almost no
editorial content as fvhooven points out in beefcake his history of the physique
magazine the magazines were not merely one aspect of a wider gay male culture
they virtually were gay culture one writer estimated that the total circulation
of the beefcake magazines in those oppressive times was over 750 000 probably
the largest audience of american gay male readers and consumers assembled to
that point the cult of male beauty that the physique magazines fostered helped
to shape gay men's physical ideals before there was any common culture a
minuscule magazine featuring a bunch of guys with their clothes off but not
completely naked may not seem like much of a revolution in the history of sex
argues hooven but to the men who bought them they were something new and daring
it took courage to purchase one of those little magazines in 1955 by 1958 mizer
decided to branch out and began to shoot short eight millimeter black and white
films of the same young men he was photographing they would be nude or dressed
in greek tunics lounging by the pool or wrestling in oil made in his home studio
now a fortress-like compound of seven buildings protected by razor wire fencing
and several attack dogs i'm not kidding the films employed simple storylines in
which the youthful performers usually played stock characters much like in the
magazines the softcore shorts were gobbled up by his magazine's reader base with
the sale of home projectors going up by 40 percent in the la area with the
release of the first film by the mid-1960s bob miser had photographed more than
5 000 male models many of them street kids hustlers bodybuilders actors soldiers
and sailors one young man who showed up on miser's doorstep in 1965 was joe
d'alessandro a young runaway from new york only 16 years old when he first
showed up joe had hitchhiked to california after escaping from a juvenile home
he had since been supporting himself by hustling and washing dishes in a pizza
parlor one of his regular johns had recommended he get in touch with mizer he
lied when they met and said he was 19. although mizer only shot one film of
d'alessandro it was enough to grab the attention of andy warhol who snatched up
the young looker and started putting him in his own films in new york his timing
couldn't have been better because there was a major crackdown on erotic material
in california soon after d'alessandro modeled for miser virtually every physique
studio in the state was facing legal prosecution for obscenity and prostitution
charges prostitution and nude modeling for artists and photographers have a long
shared history miser regularly recommended models to other photographers and to
collectors even though he must have realized that the young men were probably
being hired for sex but since he had never directly benefited from the exchange
of sex for money from any of his referrals he did not consider himself
vulnerable at the same time over the years he had developed an elaborate set of
codes to summarize information about each of his models temperament honesty and
physical traits as well as sexual characteristics and interests he offered the
key to the code to various trusted customers nevertheless the secret code seemed
suspicious to the lapd vice squad who arrested him for running a prostitution
ring he was convicted and by the time he returned to his studio the world of gay
male pornography had dramatically changed [Music] for years gay men in la had
lived lives of secrecy and fear the lapd had systematically harassed and trapped
arrested and brutally beaten the city's gay lesbian and transgender population
on new year's eve 1966 for example patrons of the black cat on sunset boulevard
many dressed in drag were attacked by undercover and plainclothed vice cops
after a number of people exchanged customary kisses at midnight more than a
dozen were arrested and forced to lie face down on the sidewalk until squad cars
arrived to take them away officers chased one person to another bar where they
trampled the female owner and beat the bartender unconscious said bartender was
held in the er for more than a week when he was released he found out that he
had been charged with assault the men arrested at the black cat were charged
with lewd conduct all of them were found guilty on february 11 1967 la's first
gay demonstration to protest police brutality took place organized by pride
personal rights in defense and education a group of younger gay men and lesbians
this event occurred more than two years before the famous stonewall riots
sparking a rebellious streak in a young filmmaker named tom de simone a graduate
of ucla's film program dissimone had worked for several years in the film
industry as an editor and had directed a low-budget horror movie that had went
nowhere he had been growing bored of the soft-core well-oiled eight millimeter
bob miser clones that it started filling gay porno theaters and thought he could
do better he began filming erotic gay scenes with full nudity but simulated sex
he delighted in more psychological porn i was very disappointed with films shown
at the park theater he recalled later i remember seeing a lot of young kids in
them jumping around on pogo sticks and other such nonsense the quality of the
films was terrible they were badly photographed and the projection was lousy i
wanted to make one of these films and really show some quality work his first
film to receive a wide release or as wide as gay porn could go back then was the
story of a gay man who kidnaps young men and keeps them locked up in cages for
his sexual pleasure while there was nudity the sex remained simulated and no
erections were shown on screen nevertheless the film drew the attention of s m
lovers but also the fbi who harassed any theater promoting a showing of the film
it was eventually cited by the u.s commission on obscenity and pornography as an
unhealthy example of pornographic film dissimon's no erection s m wasn't flying
with the majority of patrons at gay porn theaters either they were seeing more
and more eight millimeter shorts involving actual sex coming from unnamed
parties and so simulated sex kinky or not wasn't going to cut it making hardcore
was against the law according to captain jack wilson of the lapd you cannot make
a hardcore film without violating the prostitution laws when you pay actors to
engage in sex or oral copulation you've violated the laws you've solicited
individuals to engage in prostitution by asking them to exchange sex for money
because hardcore producers in the early 70s operated outside the law many were
fly-by-night operations stories were written on matchbook covers and dialogue
was made up by performers more noted for their looks than their writing talent
one producer observed at the time filming takes place on a single day and the
results are sometimes little more than records of sexual activity framed by the
collective sexual fantasies of the people who filmed and edit one film a week
every week of the year the switch over to hardcore dramatically altered how sex
movies would be made tom de simone believed that having to perform real sex
changed who would be cast in hardcore movies when you get into hardcore you're
dealing with a different class of people you can't get actors or actresses
anymore just pimps and [ __ ] but not everyone felt that way late one night in
1970 after a rehearsal for his new broadway show director and choreographer
wakefield poole his boyfriend peter and some friends decided to go to the park
miller theater to see one of disimon's films it turned out to be a disappointing
evening and for poole a somewhat jarring experience unlike the dark and cruisy
theaters that screened straight porn the lights inside the park miller theater
were bright enough that the theater's customers could actually read indeed one
patron pool reported was reading the new york times afterward they wondered
aloud whether it was possible to make a hardcore film that was more erotic and
that wasn't so degrading poole decided to find out [Music] like many other gay
men wakefield pool had come to new york in search of something he was a settler
to use the new yorker writer eb white's term it was the settlers who gave new
york its passion poole grew up in the south but moved to new york city as soon
as he could to pursue a career as a dancer when his lover peter gave poole a 16
millimeter movie camera as a gift almost immediately he began to experiment with
it inspired by several amateur movies made by steven sondheim shown at parties
and other social occasions poole created a series of multimedia dance events
using light projections and film in addition to more traditional stage elements
he had also shot a short film in homage to andy warhol after finding a painting
of himself in one of warhol's shows several months after their outing to the
park miller theater poole and peter were invited out to the fire island pines to
stay with friends a narrow strip of sand and shrubbery along the southern coast
of long island fire island was in the process of becoming a mythic landscape
andre holleran wrote in his novel dancer for the dance fire island was for
madness for hot nights kisses and herds of stunning men a national game preserve
annually replenished by men each summer arrived from every state in the union
cherry grove on fire island the tiny neighboring community to the south of the
pines had been a well-known holiday destination of gay actors writers and
artists since the 1930s and a predominantly gay community making it america's
first gay and lesbian town the poet w h auden and his partner chester coleman
regularly came out to the grove in the early 40s they were joined by an array of
famous gay artists and writers like christopher isherwood tennessee williams and
truman capote poole and his partner made plans to spend several months on fire
island and it was during this time that he decided he would make his erotic
movie once he had formulated his plot and begun to script it he started to think
about how to cast it he first asked his friends that he was staying with who
agreed but immediately had second thoughts hours later poole ran into a man
named dino who worked in a little gift shop at the hotel in the pines the three
of us had been flirting for weeks poole recalled i suddenly turned to him and
asked him if he'd like to be in a film with peter they both looked a bit
startled but moments later we agreed to shoot the next day at 6am over the next
few months poole edited the scene into a 15 minute movie when he showed it to a
group of friends they claimed that it was the best porn movie they'd ever seen
marvin shulman his business manager offered to invest in expanding it into a
feature-length movie over a series of mondays pool shot the rest of the film
that would make him famous it premiered in downtown manhattan to sold out
showings of gay men straight couples and film reviewers with rave reviews from
multiple mainstream publications the film broke through the red velvet curtain
that separated porn from legitimate movies wakefield pool wasn't the only star
to rise from boys in the sand though he also lucked into discovering the first
gay porn superstar with casey donovan donovan had gone from sixth grade teacher
to fashion model to porn star in the run of three years and boys in the sand
owed much of its success to him and he said i have this friend named wakefield
pool he used to be a dancer and a director choreographer and he's doing some
experimental movies on his own out at fire island and i know you just did this
hardcore buck film and would you be interested in being in it i said well you
know maybe i'd i'd like to meet him and and maybe see what he's done and then
the rest is history boys in the sand catapulted casey donovan into a unique
position as the first gay porn star characterized as a gay liberated robert
redford the all-american male he resembled and aptly symbolized the newly
liberated gay men living in new york city during the 1970s blonde and blue-eyed
with a well-toned body and absolutely radiant smile donovan exuded sex appeal
and communicated an almost irresistible charisma soon after boys in the sand
opened after dark a well-regarded arts magazine that dabbled in soft core porn
published a headshot of donovan in brief mention of his appearance in boys in
the sand then in march it offered an upper body shot of donovan while referring
to a recent theatrical appearance finally in july donovan appeared on the cover
with a spread in the side a gay porn star had just become a national celebrity
within weeks of boys in the sands premiere jerry douglas a young playwright and
off-broadway director who had directed a couple of nude plays somewhat unique
1960s specialty was approached by a director of tv commercials to make a gay
pornographic film producing a hardcore film was still considered such a taboo
project that the film's backers asked douglas to not reveal the production
company's name to anyone to memorize the firm's address and telephone number and
to never put anything in writing the film would be a riff on the best
picture-winning midnight cowboy and douglas decided without any hesitation to
cast casey donovan in the lead it opened a year later to packed theaters in new
york la san francisco and montreal but because exhibiting porn was a legal gray
area at the time it was hard for filmmakers to ensure that they were getting
their cut and there was no way of guaranteeing that a theater owner wouldn't
simply duplicate the film print give back the original and continue to show the
movie without ever having to pay another dime so theater owners in new jersey
and san francisco were shocked when they were visited by members of the new york
mafia gay porn producers decided to take a page from the straight porn book and
enlist the help of la casa nostra in ensuring they got paid this partnership
eventually led to gay porn being exhibited in mafia-owned theaters in most major
cities removing the middleman and increasing profits for both producers and
their italian enforcers while the involvement of the mafia led to many
filmmakers leaving the business jerry douglas among them it gave the world of
gay adult cinema a solid bedrock to grow from unlike art house theaters mafia
run cinemas had the money to bribe cops who would have otherwise confiscated
prince as obscene artifacts gay porn now had creative and innovative filmmakers
nationally famous stars a growing fan base and a rock solid distribution channel
there was nowhere to go but up the supreme court ruled today that if anyone
wants to read dirty books or look at dirty movies in his own home he may do so
and it's none of the law's business the law still may regulate the spread of
obscenity in public but the court said a person has every right to satisfy his
intellectual and emotional needs in the privacy of his own home that the law has
no business telling anyone alone at home what books he may read or what films he
may look at chuck holmes was the sales manager for a company that manufactured
pre-fabricated houses this super exciting career was what brought him to san
francisco in the early 1970s just in time for recession after losing his job
since who can buy homes during a recession even prefabricated ones a friend of
his suggested he start a mail-order business selling gay porn which is
everyone's go-to when they lose their job he took the advice and borrowed 4 200
to purchase a handful of already made films and launched falcon studios in april
1972. i wanted something that had an image of fierceness and power and grace and
was natural i thought a falcon represented that it was a bird of prey with
sexual acts at least the way that we make him here at falcon there's generally
someone who is the predator and someone who's the prey no i don't mean that in a
harmful way but by the end of a falcon film somebody has snatched someone and
given it to him good business was slow at first since there was a lack of
product he was relying on local producers to provide him with the eight
millimeter shorts he'd be selling growing impatient with their inability to
provide on time chuck decided to start producing his own films the first movie
falcon made was a two-part loop called muscle sweat and brawn holmes followed
these up with taste my love part one and two and ace in the hole subtlety in
movie titles was not his strong suit most of falcon's short starred handsome and
sexually energetic young men who went by nondescript names like tom dan gary
dave kenny rod phillip michael bill and pete a formula that would be replicated
in the new millennium by producers like sean cody and corbin fisher falcon
followed the erotic formulas developed by earlier producers but in a more blunt
fashion most of the shorts portrayed sex scenes in a straightforward manner with
simple production values lighting always the most difficult to manage production
factor varied greatly from film to film there were almost never expensive or
exotic locations and the loops rarely showed dramatic or sexual action that
extended over a period of time these were after all only short movies consisting
of one scene no more than 15 or 20 minutes long for the most part they were
built around an anecdote never a full-fledged story they merely provided a setup
that created a charged atmosphere in which the sexual action could take place
from the beginning holmes clearly envisioned the falcon brand of sexual content
to be fast urgent desperate sexual contact between two or more persons as
desperate as we can capture on film or video the basic formula at falcon has not
changed and i do not foresee it changing he said decades later more important
than picture sound quality for holmes was grooming nobody could have dirty feet
in a falcon video because i come from the midwest and they'd have these vfw
stags where they'd have these porno movies and all the men and all the women
would always have dirty feet and i always thought those lazy bastards why don't
they wash those people's feet it's distracting holmes wanted to see the boy next
door who looked like they wouldn't ever do anything but be the best little
fellows the little businessman the good members of their community and all of a
sudden they'd just kiss each other and all hell would break loose and they'd
just try to [ __ ] each other to death holmes adopted a business model built on
aggressive pricing and marketing policies falcons set its price is considerably
above those of other companies eight millimeter shorts the high prices falcon
charged for films and later for its videos went far beyond what was necessary to
support its cost to production from the beginning falcon operated strictly as a
mail order business though hardcore theatrical releases were garnering other
producers acclaim and prestige theatrical distribution was both more expensive
and riskier than the production of shorts for mail order distribution we didn't
want to let 16 millimeter prints out of our hands that's all you needed to make
an inter-negative and make all the eight millimeter and super eight copies you
ever wanted and back then there were a lot of people in this business who did a
lot of illegal duping falcon's policies stressing its mail order business
catered to customers who were older and wealthier than the audiences who
attended theater showings more closeted as well they were also more likely to
live outside the metropolitan areas that had large and growing gay communities
falcon essentially moved gay porn to the suburbs throughout the 70s john travis
matt sterling falcon studios and numerous other producers of gay male porn
incorporated a great deal of san francisco's gay sexual culture the scale and
intensity of the city's sexual scene had created a distinctive world of shared
experience anonymous sex in a communal setting in a sex club or a bath house or
at an orgy led to a community based on pleasure rather than politics performing
in porn was merely an extension of the communal sex in which so many men took
part the city's pornographers often took their scenarios and images from the
city's gay sex life itself they recruited performers from the community and they
translated their own sexual experiences to the screen in the fall of 1977 chuck
holmes met with his production and marketing staff to discuss upcoming projects
falcon's cameraman of the moment colin meyer a recent graduate of the film
program at san francisco state university suggested that they make a series of
short loops putting all the biggest porn icons at the time into one movie three
generations of the top gay porn stars as it were they decided the film would
feature three main stars al parker who had become famous as a cult model dick
fisk a young up and coming performer and the by now legendary star casey donovan
in a world of entertainment that had now seen jaws and star wars change the
movie industry this trio of gay porn royalty would make up the lead attraction
of the industry's first blockbuster the other side of aspen if casey donovan was
the linchpin al parker was the top dog donovan and parker had never met but
donovan were considered parker one of his porno dream men almost 10 years
younger than donovan parker was born andrew oaken in 1952. parker seemed
destined for porn since the day when as a 15 year old he stumbled across a
tattered magazine that included beefcake photos from the legendary cult studios
around that same time parker attended the famous concert at woodstock where he
spent practically the entire weekend in the back of a hearse having sex with a
hell's angels biker and though barely in attendance at the concert itself he did
manage to show up on the poster for the movie the other side of aspen had
started out as a series of loops but once holmes decided to create a framework
linking the scenes it quickly morphed into falcon's first feature film the
production was probably the smoothest porn shoot to date having been cast with
industry pros and a strong directorial voice behind the camera it ran like a
well-oiled machine once filming had wrapped falcon ramped up its marketing
strategy by sending out a pre-mailer with reservation cards to its best
customers reservations poured back in then a brochure was mailed the response to
the brochure was even more enthusiastic producing the highest revenues in the
history of the company up to that point five to seven times greater than ever
before the other side of aspen was falcon's first blockbuster and like all
blockbusters it accounted for the lion's share of falcon's earnings its
explosive impact marked a turning point for a company selling its films only
through mail-order transactions unwittingly preparing it for the coming age of
the vcr falcon deciding to release the film on vhs instead of betamax is
considered by home video experts to be one of the reasons that vhs would go on
to win the format war against sony's higher quality but more expensive to
produce betamax it was good timing since many adult theaters were being shut
down the success of aspen transformed falcon into a different sort of company
one that began to increase its production values and adopt other policies such
as signing performers as exclusives an old school hollywood tactic that had died
out with the death of the studio system keeping certain stars under exclusivity
contracts in exchange for regular paychecks and only loaning them out for
exorbitant fees that made falcon into a powerhouse of gay porn companies with
aspen falcon discovered the midas formula it went on to produce four sequels in
its aspen series over the next few decades often starring the most popular
performers of the day a sort of gay porn time capsule falcon studios had built
its brand as a gay macho fantasy the studio skewed anything that appeared
campier less than rigorously masculine following the model the rest of the
industry had been built on for years the castro clone archetype butch men with
middle class jobs had permeated gay porn all the way back to the photography of
bob miser but the other side of aspen was a milestone for the gay porn film
industry it signaled the culmination of the gay macho sexual ethos and turned
the ideal gay male body young men with a swimmer's build no tattoos and little
body hair the age of twinks had begun [Music] william higgins was a late bloomer
he was approaching 35 and had never had sex with either a man or a woman he was
running a stained glass business in houston where he taught housewives how to
make stained glass decorations for their homes he explored his sexuality by
going to theaters to watch gay porn but he thought the movies were so bad that
he decided he wanted to go to california and try to make better ones and so in
early 1978 higgins set out for san francisco though he only got as far as los
angeles there he headed for hollywood because someone had told him that that was
the gay area of town as he drove down santa monica boulevard lined with hustlers
he knew he was in the right place stopping for a bite to eat higgins met a man
and told him he'd specifically come out to california to make a gay porn movie
the man encouraged him well okay let's do it he said the man helped higgins to
find a cast and they shot the film in his apartment the film would go on to be
called a married man it starred jack wrangler one of the leading stars of the
time it all seemed so easy but filming was a disaster none of the performers got
along they disagreed about shooting performance and editing higgins had
virtually no previous experience with photography or production the film had
been loaded backwards into the camera and ended up underexposed nor did he have
enough sexual experience he had never even seen two men having sex up close
though the century theater booked the film the owner of new york's adonis
theater declined it was such an unpleasant experience the higgins decided to
call it quits he then took a job as a clerk at a bath house in the san fernando
valley and settled down in venice beach venice beach with its scantily dressed
surfers and shirtless young men roller skating proved to be too titillating a
sexual scene for higgins to ignore i was walking around venice beach and i said
oh this would really be an interesting movie and so i started shooting some
footage with film that we had left over from making a married man the footage
shot sat on the shelf until he received a call from monroe buehler an
independent producer infamous in hollywood for producing gay erotica wow we
really liked a married man and i'm looking for a picture as my big christmas
feature which is you know an important thing why don't you make another film
higgins quickly agreed and put together a film he called the boys of venice set
along venice beach the movie was built around the youth culture that had emerged
incorporating the new roller skating fad into the movie the opening scene of the
film takes place in a small bathroom with two performers having sex with roller
skates on stunt doubles probably would have been a good idea the boys of venice
was a tremendous box office success and decisively launched higgins on his
career he set up his own companies to handle production laguna pacific and
distribution catalina video and went on to become the most prolific gay porn
filmmaker in the united states over the next five years he made 20 movies most
of them record-breaking successes though boys of venice was filmed without a
lead kip noel emerged as the star of the movie he was the first major twink porn
star in fact he personified the twink an attractive young gay man with a slender
build and little or no body hair originally recommended to higgins by monroe
beeler noel was not new to gay porn he had performed before in a series of loops
for director mark reynolds generally assumed to be straight null actually
seduced higgins on their first meeting when kipnuhl got off the plane he really
didn't look that good he had a look about him that was kind of butch but not
that attractive part of it was his having a little mustache that didn't work
overall he just didn't look like he would photograph that well higgins was about
to send him back home but i thought i had to at least interview him the first
thing he did was say let me show you what i look like and he dropped his pants
which made me take a second look at him at that point he said well why don't you
take your clothes off now i try to keep these things very above board and
business like but he insisted for many kip knoll was the iconic william higgins
star over the next three years they made four other films together kip knoll and
the west side boys pacific coast highway class of 84 part 2 and brothers should
do it the prolific filmmaker was dominating the video market when he decided to
try an experiment the experiment turned into the film class reunion a feature
where he decided to use all the stars from the past invitations were sent out to
15 years worth of performers but higgins had no idea how many might eventually
show up for the shoot multiple buses worth of performers ended up making their
way to the glendale mansion in which they were filming some people even snuck in
who had never been in a movie before the shoot more or less became a giant orgy
with three cameramen tracking around the room constantly like an extended scene
from caligula class reunion wowed audiences with the sheer amount of men on film
all at once something that ambitious hadn't been tried in gay or straight porn
up to that point higgins would consider it his masterpiece an ode to the joy and
sexual abundance gay men enjoyed at the time it was the early 1980s and that was
all about to change [Music] the discovery of what would eventually become aids a
new sexually transmitted disease a disease that destroyed the very mechanism
that normally protected the body from diseases created a sequence of crises
medical social and political the aids epidemic also provoked a crisis regarding
sex itself within the gay community namely bareback sex however before the virus
that caused aids was even identified sexual promiscuity was believed by many to
be the most likely aspect of the gay lifestyle responsible for the spread of the
disease then simply called the gay cancer was the sex gay men engaged in
inherently dangerous or bad could gay men continue to engage in sex at all if
they risk death from aids how could gay men have sex in an epidemic of a
sexually transmitted disease the debates both inside and outside the gay
community produced fatal displacements many of those most concerned failed to
address either the practical actions one could take to prevent spreading the
disease or how best to defend gay male sexuality in the situation as leo bersani
pointed out attention turned away from the kinds of sex people practiced to a
moralistic discourse about promiscuity the crisis about sex also created a
profound sense of paranoia sex is just a completely different thing now porn
star and director al parker exclaimed the entire time you're having sex you're
thinking i'm having sex with everybody this person's ever had sex with i wonder
what he's done i wonder where he's been if he's positive or negative i wonder if
i'm giving him anything and you if you can keep a heart on while that's going on
in your head you're better than i am since the aids epidemic had begun in 1981
the public debate about gay men's sexual activities had grown increasingly
virulent their sexual promiscuity was often targeted as a public menace in
particular the danger posed by men engaging in anal intercourse with particular
ire directed toward those who were both topped and bottomed since the late 70s
anal sex had become the focal point of gay porn while it is difficult to
document the shift away from oral sex as the normative activity to anal sex was
one of the major changes that accompanied the sexual revolution of the 60s and
70s and one of the most notable developments of gay male sexuality since the
stonewall riots was the dramatic increase of sexual versatility by 1985 the
growing furor over gay men's sexuality explicitly promiscuity and more
implicitly their sexual versatility caused many producers of gay porn to
re-examine how sex between men should be represented in erotic videos i think
that when aids happen it was devastating to this business i think it scared the
[ __ ] out of everybody when we found out how it was being produced and of
course when we then found out all of our actors were dying i mean i think it
changed the industry a lot some people went out of business i think because of
that aids activists and gay leaders argue that porn should help eroticize safer
sex porn stars could serve as role models for condom use directors and producers
hesitated to use condoms because they believed that showing performers taking
precautions and using condoms would inhibit the sexual arousal porn films were
meant to provoke nevertheless they paid some lip service to these concerns they
were doing everything but using condoms they were dancing around that issue i
would talk to chuck and i would say you need to use condoms chuck you have to
use condoms i remember that was one of the big bones of contention with falcon
was that they they were sort of the last ones to come on board with using a
condom the feeling was that the consumer wouldn't buy a product that depicted
condoms in 1988 chris mann the vice president of catalina video announced that
aids became a factor about three years ago we've really taken a hard look at the
situation we've had to this is something that drastically affects the entire
nature of our business for activists and community leaders the importance of
porn stars acting as role models blended with concerns that sexual activities on
the set posed risks to the performers most people in the industry believe that
the sex that took place on porn sets was relatively safe since performers had to
pull out for the money shot industry insiders frequently argued that most
performers understood the risk and willingly chose to take it in order to create
fantasies that would encourage many viewers to stay home rather than engage in
high-risk sex with another person man explained what we would like to do is have
the erotic industry be a positive influence not a negative one the public knows
there's a health crisis we show them how to have sex safely and still make it a
fun joyous experience part of the celebration of being gay is the celebration of
your sexuality if we did only safe sex films the erotic value would truly be
gone after all when you watch a regular film you don't go out and drive your car
the way those people do in street chases it's a fantasy not real life for
decades gay sex had been limited only by the sexually repressive society there
were no natural limits to threatened anyone's lifestyle no pregnancy to worry
about it almost seemed that in sex everything was possible aids suddenly put on
limits now sex especially anal sex had potentially fatal consequences various
studios claimed that they screamed the actors who appeared in their movies and
used only healthy performers in an effort to avoid losing their audience with
performances that only consisted of safer sex studios first tried a more
didactic approach starting in 1987 both catalina and falcon studios put
three-minute long instructional trailers produced by the gay men's health crisis
on their videotapes even as late as 1988 condoms are apparent only in a minority
of films many producers and studios left safe sex up to the performers
themselves director jd slater who adopted this laissez-faire approach said as
far as safe sex in my work is concerned i will not preach or morally judge i am
simply a documentarian of sexual incidents what an actor does is completely his
own decision i let an actor do exactly what he wants any way he wants to do it
some directors think it's their job to instruct the public on safe sex and for
them that's great but that's not my responsibility there had always been a group
of gay men who were ambivalent about porn they believed that porn promoted
certain stereotypes of masculinity and represented commodified forms of physical
desirability but with porn increasingly considered a safe alternative to casual
sex they had come to believe that the aids epidemic had to some extent
legitimized porn porn became another form of safe sex ironically while
discussions among gay porn producers were taking place a fierce debate raged in
congress over funding for aids education information or prevention materials on
october 11 1987 over half a million lesbians gay men and their supporters one of
the largest demonstrations ever to take place in washington dc marched both for
their civil rights and to protest the reagan administration's failure to act
promptly to address the aids epidemic the names project presented its memorial
quilt on the washington mall in which the names of people who had died of aids
were inscribed in over 2 000 panels it covered the equivalent of two football
fields days later in his introduction to a debate senator jesse helms from north
carolina dismissed the demonstration as this mob over here this weekend he then
proceeded to introduce legislation guaranteeing that no aids prevention
literature or efforts would go to gay communities the amendment he proposed
sought to prohibit the use of any funds provided under this act to the centers
for disease control from being used to provide aids education information or
prevention materials and activities that promote encourage or condone homosexual
sexual activities there is a feeling among members of any of a number of
professions or just the general population that patients with aids many of whom
are homosexual are a little bit different i think that that has led to a little
bit of a complacency about the approach towards this disease it seemed that
neither congress nor the gay porn industry wanted to acknowledge that condoms
would make sex safer nevertheless some insiders were critical of the porn
industry's stance terry legrand of marathon films declared producers are very
wrong when they say we must produce a fantasy for the viewer i say [ __ ]
fantasy time is over fantasy has to stop i think the biggest message we can give
to people is through videotapes as long as it's you know subtly done if they see
enough movies where people are getting screwed with condoms then maybe it will
become a part of their own lives not long after making that statement commercial
producers attempting to be responsible and activists and public health educators
wanting to be effective adopted similar approaches they finally began producing
safe sex porn though many companies refused to give in to condom usage until the
dawn of the 90s despite the chaos of the aids crisis or more likely because of
it the porn industry was booming in the 1980s as dave kinnick a gay porn
reviewer and videographer noted the anti-sex backlash of the 80s had a
devastating effect on the nation's bathhouses and x-rated theaters but it fueled
profits in the video industry people may have stopped having sex but they
certainly hadn't stopped wanting sex like bathtub gin during prohibition the
popularity of videos soared casey donovan was actively involved in several of
the early attempts to develop safe sex videos but otherwise he saw no need to
change his own way of life while sex was the basis of donovan's professional
life it also continued to be one of the most important activities in his
personal life he seemed to be almost insatiable and would frequently engage in
casual sex between appointments with his escorting clients toward the end of
1984 donovan and wakefield pool decided to return to fire island and shoot boys
in the sand too they both hoped the sequel would revive their sagging fortunes
neither had achieved any great success independently of their first joint
venture he hoped the sequel might again put him on the covers of magazines and
give him national recognition one friend recalled that he was more buliant than
ever and i could clearly see that he was trying to keep in check his fantasies
of becoming the man of the moment all over again but the film wasn't released
until two years later the producer had died of a heart attack on the day pool
started shooting the film and the ownership of the film stock was subject to
legal battles lasting over 20 months by the time it came out in 1986 there was
no buzz or anticipation no moment of renewed celebrity the world it came into
was quite different from the one the original boys in the sand had entered it
was more competitive in a field created by the new technology of video and the
sequel offered a vision of sex that seemed outdated in the era already dealing
with aids it seemed innocent and naive boys in the sand too opens with donovan
and another man having sex in the shrubbery in another scene the famous scene
from the first version of boys in the sand is reprised in which donovan emerges
from the bay only in this film a young pat allen emerges from the bay as donovan
returns to the waves seemingly forever a year later in august of 1987 casey
donovan passed away though he never publicly disclosed his infection aids had
now claimed gay porn's first [Music] superstar [Music] on march 10 1987 larry
kramer stood before a large audience of gay men at new york's lesbian and gay
community center in greenwich village cramer was the country's most vocal critic
of both the federal government and gay communities failure to address the aids
crisis in 1983 he had founded gay men's health crisis to provide support and
social services for the gay men stricken with the disease two years later he
wrote the normal heart one of the longest running plays ever at the public
theater to dramatize the situation behind its establishment on that march
evening kramer read from his 1983 aids manifesto 1112 and counting our continued
existence depends on just how angry you can get four years later the number of
aids cases had reached 32 thousand while any number of issues spurred his wrath
that evening the tipping point was the overly restrictive drug testing policy of
the federal government's food and drug administration which thus far had
prevented the development of any medicine to treat hiv and aids he was also
exasperated by the failure of gay men's health crisis to lobby or take an
advocacy role he appealed to his audience do you want me to start a new
organization devoted solely to political action a huge yes rose from the
audience two days later more than 300 people met to found the aids coalition to
unleash power act up their first political action was a large demonstration on
wall street to protest the lack of corporate initiative on development of drugs
to treat hiv and aids in the years that followed act up gained thousands of
members and 70 chapters in the united states and abroad the gay community had
reached a breaking point joey yale who appeared in la plays itself died of aids
on april 18 1986. he was 36 years old jw king's stardom brothers should do it
and these bases are loaded with his fictive brother john king one of the most
popular gay porn stars of the late 70s and early 80s he died of aids in los
angeles on december 5th 1986. he was 31. gay porn film director arthur brenson
died of aids on july 28 1987 at 44. his film pleasure beach won the first annual
gay erotic film award in 1985. casey donovan died of aids in florida on august
10th 1987 none of his friends or family knew that he had aids he was 43. john
holmes who boasted that he had sex with more than 1400 partners died of aids on
march 13th 1988. he was 43. photographer robert maplethorpe died of aids in a
hospital in boston on march 9 1989. he was 42. johnny dawes the star of arthur
brenson's prize-winning pleasure beach died of aids on july 25th 1989. he was
34. [Music] as the aids epidemic devastated the lives of gay men more gay men
were choosing to stay at home and watch pornography than go out and cruise for
sex at the height of the epidemic in the fall of 1988 jerry douglas launched the
first issue of man shots a new magazine dedicated to covering gay porn films one
of the articles in that issue was about safe sex videos and another was an
obituary to porn star eric striker the fictive brother of gay porn megastar jeff
striker it was the first time any publication devoted to erotic photography and
porn had published an obituary of a porn star it was to be a regular feature of
man shots magazine douglas felt that it was time for the adult film industry to
acknowledge that many performers were dying of aids in the editorial
introduction douglas compared the origins of mainstream filmmaking with the
development of gay porn during the 20s when silent filmmaking was at its zenith
few of its practitioners thought of their work as an art form or imagined one
day their flickers would be treasured in museums and archival vaults silent film
making if we are to believe the memoirs of griffith chaplin and especially
senate with a carefree chaotic business in which people were delighted to be
paid for being a little bit crazy today historians dig with the intensity of
archaeologists to reconstruct the days and data of that era we suspect in time
the output of the carefree chaotic business of skinflix will also achieve the
status of treasures and future historians will likewise try to reconstruct the
days of early porn to that end this magazine attempts to give some order to the
first quarter century of gay erotic filmmaking jerry douglas saw many of his
friends in the industry die of aids drug overdoses and suicide but he lived long
enough to see the memorialize in a class on the history of gay erotica taught at
his alma mater yale university not long after helping to launch man shots
magazine jerry douglas decided it was about time he returned to producing films
for his first project fratrimony douglas wrote a short script about two brothers
and their sexual obsession with each other since it was his first film in 14
years he sought to make it as contained as possible both thematically and
practically all of the film's action takes place in one house and only two
performers appear in it it was unusual for a pornographic film to have only two
performers but the movie was an immediate hit a master had returned to the
industry the film was nominated for avn awards for best gay picture best gay
actor and best gay director the success of fratrimony inspired douglas to make
another film almost immediately the germ of a new idea began to grow while at
the annual avn awards show in las vegas douglas has seen shishi leroux the drag
persona of up-and-coming porn director larry pasciotti perform and was stunned
by her flamboyant presence and style larue was a lavish personality who
frequently emceed and sang at industry events though they had long had a
telephone relationship while douglas was a magazine editor and larue the
marketing and promotions manager at catalina video douglas had never seen larue
perform she had recently left catalina to direct videos for anahana productions
after seeing her performance in las vegas douglas wanted to build a movie around
leroux but he asked himself how do i build a gay porn movie around a
full-figured drag queen it came to him over lunch with larue who brought along a
handsome brunette performer named joey stefano at lunch that day stefano talked
about the difficulties he had coming to terms with his sexuality because of his
catholic background stefano's struggles gave douglas an idea within weeks of
returning from la douglas had written a script about a young man's coming to
terms with his homosexuality against the backdrop of the catholic church and
aids activism douglas incorporated some aspects of the relationship between
larue and stefano as well douglas felt that more of a man was the first real
film i made i think that's the first time i really hit my stride and got it
right all the elements came together not only douglas's extensive experience as
a playwright and theater director his pioneering role as a director of erotic
films and his wealth of knowledge of the gay world as a journalist and observer
but also the strong erotic appeal of the actors and above all the exact and
delicate appreciation of the historical forces sweeping across the gay world
more of a man sets the sexual action in the actual context of gay male life in
the late 1980s a time overwhelmed by the aids epidemic filled with the fear of
sex and riddled by doubts that aids could be stopped the main characters
represented the two poles of gay male sexual life one a young man torn by guilt
and self-hatred overwhelmed with a sense of sin and unwilling to identify
himself as gay and the other a self-accepting gay man in a long-term
relationship an aids activist the young construction worker engages in risky
sexual encounters with strangers anonymous sex and public bathrooms while the
activist uses a condom even during sex with his long-term partner the film was
made within an industry that had hesitated for years to portray explicit sexual
action using a condom douglas showed that within the grim historical setting
powerful and arousing sex could take place more of a man won four awards at the
1990 avn awards including the best gay video best screenplay best non-sexual
role for shishuluru and best performer for joey stefano stefano was born
nicholas iacona on new year's day 1968. after his father's death when he was 15
he resolved to escape his small town of chester pennsylvania by becoming a model
he put together a portfolio with the help of a local photographer and soon met
tony davis an adult performer who introduced nicholas to gay porn after meeting
shishi leroux who christened him joey stefano and starring in more of a man he
instantly rose to stardom not just within the world of gay porn but outside it
as well he created a hit clothing line and was featured in multiple madonna
projects the singer was so smitten with joey that she was apparently devastated

<comment {% include commenter video=todd %}> [TODO]

<u>[Added as an addendum in a pinned comment]:</u>

1) Somerton claims that Joey Stefano "created a hit clothing line." I am finding no evidence of this.

</comment>

when she found out that he was actually gay and not gay for pay talent agent
david del val who represented multiple hollywood actors and some of the biggest
stars on broadway was thoroughly convinced that he could turn joey into a
leading man and began shopping him around to casting directors shockingly they
were pretty open to having him read for upcoming parts gay porn history or not
he was a talented actor oozed charisma and had the type of movie star good looks
that are rare like tom cruise with prettier eyes joey also took frequent trips
back to pennsylvania to visit his older sister linda who he adored and who had
helped him get sober after developing a drug problem in his late teens a habit
he'd picked up to numb the pain after his father's death he was a doting uncle
to her children and even gave her away at her wedding on one trip back in 1994
he told her that he planned to leave porn since david dalvall was busy lining
him up auditions for mainstream movies in the meantime he was willing to mop
floors or wash dishes whatever it took to keep the bills paid while he waited
for his hollywood dream to come true before leaving linda's house that summer he
told her that he had some unfinished business in la it was in la that he
received the news that he was hiv positive there was still no effective
treatment for the disease and he felt hopeless joey stefano was found nearly
lifeless in a hollywood motel room his ashen body spread across sweat-soaked
sheets garbed in only a red hoodie he was pronounced dead later that day at
cedar sinai medical center the cause of death was an overdose of cocaine
morphine and heroin a lethal combination that everyone who knew him said was
obviously suicide i'll always wonder whether i could have gotten through to him
that night whether he could have believed what i was telling him del val said
later could he have had an acting career because let me tell you he really had
it the ramifications of the aids crisis continued to rock the porn world well
after the discovery of protease inhibitors that kept the disease more or less at
bay much like the rest of the gay community stars in the gay porn world spent a
decade and a half burying their friends colleagues and lovers it wasn't until
stray people began contracting the disease via blood transfusions that any money
was put into aids research in america the bulk of said money was earmarked for
abstinence campaigns instead of research or safe sex awareness the christian
right wing and let's be honest many of the left wing as well argued that porn
stars and sex workers should be excluded from any kind of possible aids-related
government-funded assistance or even drug trials video stores under pressure
from family groups began to carry fewer adult titles arguing that porn with or
without a condom straight or gay would lead to dangerous sexual practices
especially among college students away from their parents watchful eyes many
convenience stores stopped carrying adult magazines the playboy penthouse and
hustler were mostly safe and under the guise of stopping sex trafficking the
clinton administration advised the u.s postal service to stop transporting
pornographic material it wasn't illegal to sell porn in your stores or for
shipping companies to deliver it but at the time some people in the industry
felt like they were just waiting for the other shoe to drop bill clinton's
re-election campaign in 1996 turned shockingly conservative across the board and
with the recent underage porn scandals surrounding tracy lourdes many directors
producers and performers felt that porn's time in america might have come to an
end but then the birth of the internet was a revolution for many industries but
most of all porn making the purchase of adult films easier and more private the
internet helped the industry grow from an industry worth an estimated 800
million dollars in 1996 to 10 billion dollars in 2006. the adult entertainment
industry revolutionized the internet as well it was pornography producers that
finance the software and technology necessary to make secure online purchases
with credit cards a conglomerate of gay porn studios hired coding specialists in
the mid 90s to streamline the display of photos online and then the ability to
stream video technology that would later be adopted by facebook instagram and
youtube european gay porn studio bellamy was the first company to stream live
video over the internet creating a whole new industry of webcam sex shows in
2003 their streaming technology was bought by a small telecommunications startup
called skype by 2010 pornography was estimated to make up ten percent of the
entire internet in 2020 that estimate has changed to 30 percent there are more
paid subscribers to porn sites in 2020 than there are to netflix and that's not
taking into account the vast amount of ad-supported porn on sites like x-tube
and pornhub lowering the barrier of entry to gay porn via the internet is
believed by sex educators to be one of the biggest influences on the spike in
homosexuality and bisexuality among the general population it's not that there
are suddenly more queer people than ever before but that it's easier for them to
explore their sexuality in a consequence-free way by 2004 there was more porn
than ever with countless professional and amateur producers filling up the
internet niches that has long gone under served suddenly had entire sites
dedicated to them and quickly it became very obvious that the most popular genre
of gay porn was the barely legal kind a genre that was about to rock the billion
dollar industry to its very core [Music] at the end of the 20th century brian
coaches was an unemployed medical photographer in dallas township a small town
in pennsylvania he was so hard off that he'd had to declare bankruptcy coaches
started cobra video in hopes of hitting it big and to many people's surprise it
worked he had a knack for finding cute boys who would work for cheap and
appealing to the fans of barely legal porn because of this coach's company grew
quickly with adult video stores unable to keep his videos in stock coaches
couldn't resist mixing business with pleasure though only a few months after
getting into porn he almost scuttled his new career in the spring of 2001
coaches met a young pennsylvania boy in an aol chat room who used the screen
name superboy298 although the boy was only 15 coaches picked him up twice each
time he had sex with a boy including once on camera after promising him a job
packaging cobra videos for online orders the boy eventually spilled the beans to
his parents police and the fbi raided the house and took away pornographic
material audio equipment and cameras initially charged with several felonies
including the sexual assault of a boy who he had videotaped coaches was allowed
to plead guilty to a lesser charge when prosecutors realized that the boy had
lied about his age with the exception of the sex tape coaches made prosecutors
were forced to return every item they had seized from him including 600 porn
videos placed on probation for one year coaches served no jail time by 2004 he
had left his run-in with the law behind him and had become one of the most
successful producers of gay pornography in the world he drove a bmw a maserati
and an aston martin had a large house and more money than he knew what to do
with all of this came from making videos of his kennel of twins having sex and
no twink was more responsible for paying for those cars and that house than sean
lockhart aka brent corrigan coaches had discovered lockhart online he was a rare
find a dead ringer for zac efron with charisma and sex appeal to spare while
lockhart was still a junior in high school coaches made and distributed films
that featured the 17 year old off the set he wielded obsessive control over the
teenager's life desperate to know at all times where lockhart was and who he was
talking to the dvds and downloads of lockhart's quickly became the top sellers
in the industry one film schoolboy crush was the most downloaded gay video of
2004 but as lockhart's fan base expanded coaches faced a problem the young star
wanted to strike out on his own coaches was paying lockhart only two thousand
dollars per scene about the industry standard at the time for a handful of
scenes each year coaches by contrast reportedly cleared two million dollars a
year lockhart was determined to work for other studios though and so coaches
sued him for breach of contract demanding one million dollars in damages the
teenager was backed into a corner born in idaho on halloween in 1986 sean grew
up in the seattle area his mother who he described as an alcoholic with a temper
left him with his stepfather and three siblings when sean was in the third grade
lockhart never knew his biological father and never sought him out my mother
never wanted to tell me anything about him he said her flawed philosophy on
parenting was to give me the space i needed to live my life when sean was a
junior in high school he moved to san diego to live with his mother in a shabby
house in a rough neighborhood he was interested in film and the move enabled him
to establish state residency so he could attend film school in southern
california being gay made him unpopular so he took refuge in the drama society
he also became a regular in hillcrest san diego's wealthy gay enclave sexually
active at 16 he was soon fending off men left and right it wasn't an easy time
though sean's brother called him [ __ ] constantly and his stepfather another
alcoholic ran into trouble with the irs growing up in my family it wasn't
encouraged to show a lot of love to each other i just remember a lot of hate
fighting and yelling i don't recall ever having a positive adult role model at
16 he began spending his weekends in los angeles with his new boyfriend a 21
year old he called jake the two had met online and jake became the first in a
series of older lovers eager to exploit lockhart's looks in 2003 jake and
aspiring porn star himself had applied for a job at cobra video the company
owned by brian coaches he was turned down too old but sean who looked 12 was
exactly what cobra was looking for considering how hand to mouth he and his
mother were living sean was willing to give porn a try in an online chat jake
gushed about lockhart to coaches i have the hottest new boyfriend who is 17 he's
about to turn 18 he wrote to prove it he slipped off sean's shorts while he was
sleeping and turned on his webcam to give coaches a live dose of lockhart
coaches was hooked sensing the massive following lockhart would have he
contacted shawn almost every day chatting online and on the phone for hours
coaches sent lockhart a video camera which sean used to film a casting tape of
himself masturbating brian was good at talking at my level lockhart says he
asked a lot of questions he wanted to know about my family situation and about
how inattentive my mother was he sort of took the place of my father and i
thought he was looking out for my best interests coaches had the kind of
childhood that lockhart could only dream of as a boy brian rose to the rank of
eagle scout and won a nationwide photography contest if sean couldn't have an
ideal childhood he'd try his best to have an ideal adulthood in february of 2004
nine months before his 18th birthday sean began shooting movies for coaches
performing alone and with other models under two contracts he signed with the
director lockhart was to receive an unspecified amount for each action scene he
shot in addition he would be given a 2002 volkswagen jetta a set of four rims
and tires insurance premiums worth twenty one hundred a cell phone plan and an
unspecified signing bonus to a teenager living on the edge of poverty this was
significant money lockhart chose a stage name brent corrigan by flipping through
a telephone book on a shoot in florida in an online column he wrote later for a
gay porn gossip site sean said i could easily disappear for four days for a
shoot and lie to my mother about where i was going i was in it alone i promised
myself i would do the work to get what i needed and then turn my back on it i
was still somewhat ashamed of my homosexuality let alone having participated in
gay porn despite lockhart's misgivings brent corrigan became a star dvds
featuring him sold briskly at sixty dollars per copy as did online downloads at
eight cents a minute he gained even more notoriety when schoolboy crushed and
three other corrigan titles were pulled from store shelves and internet sites
after it became clear that lockhart had been underage during their production it
all started one day in august 2004 a woman who lived next door to coaches
approached lockhart who was painting brian's house she demanded to know how old
he was denouncing coaches as a pedophile and threatening to call the police
afraid he would be arrested lockhart packed up his belongings and headed back to
san diego where his mother was living with her latest boyfriend in a one-bedroom
apartment sean moved in with them and graduated from high school with few job
prospects no money for school and working for a hundred dollars a week shawn was
at a dead end then he met grant roy a well-off trucking executive who was a fan
of his work a relationship quickly developed between the two and roy decided
they needed to wrestle control of brent corrigan's brand away from brian coaches
they set up a website to promote lockhart and formed a new porn company coaches
sued charging lockhart with trademark infringement claiming to own the branch
oregon name in a counter suit lockhart alleged the coaches had engaged in
fraudulent business practices which left him in emotional distress the lawsuit
created further difficulties for lockhart who had left cobra to film the velvet
mafia with falcon studios who had agreed to pay him ten thousand dollars for two
scenes far above the industry standard but as soon as legal threats arrived from
coaches falcon refused to build lockhart as brent corrigan calling him fox rider
instead feeling like they'd have to produce their own videos roy began looking
for models online where he came across a picture of a buff jock type named
harlow quadra a navy veteran who made his living as a male escort in the
military town of virginia beach quadro wanted to move beyond escorting and make
even bigger money in online porn a brent corrigan fan he struck up an email
correspondence with lockhart and roy which led to talk of forming a porn
partnership quadra and his boyfriend joseph carakas made plans to meet them on
january 11th at a gay porn trade show held in las vegas the two couples sat down
for dinner at lucerck in the bellagio and the conversation immediately turned to
business cuadra and caracas came on strong wanting to strike a deal right away
they offered an obscene amount of money to do you know a couple of scenes and i
just was like this is ridiculous whatever reservations lockhart and roy had
everyone at the table knew that there was a major impediment to any deal brian
coaches as long as cobra had lockhart tied up in court the star could not film
under the name brent corrigan for both lockhart and quadra their fame and future
livelihoods seemed to hang on a single middle-aged man back in pennsylvania so
quadra made a proposal that struck both lockhart and roy as strange what if
brian left the country he asked roy understood exactly what was being suggested
we don't need coaches to leave the country he said changing the subject when
dinner ended lockhart stumbled back to his hotel room and passed out neither he
nor roy called the police within days their lawsuit with brian coaches was
settled brent corrigan was now a free agent information that never made it to
cuadra and caracas a day after the trade show ended according to police quadra
used his discover card to run a 39.95 background check on brian coaches the
check turned up his address on midland drive two days later on january 22nd
quadra created a new email account the first message sent from it went to cobra
cobravideo.com an account used by coaches the sender introduced himself as danny
moylan and said would like to model happy face coaches invited him to come visit
the next evening as kochus was speaking on the phone to his attorney in
california danny moylan arrived the director said that he had to go and he
sounded on top of the world less than two hours later coaches was dead stabbed
28 times his throat had been slashed and his house set on fire he was only
identifiable by dental records the next day quadra called lockhart go to the
wnep website quadra said referring to the abc affiliate in nearby scranton which
was reporting on the murder of brian coaches sean changed the channel dropped
the phone and threw up it didn't take long for police to zero in on quadra
finding pictures of him on coaches hard drive but they needed more than just
pictures and some chat history meanwhile quadra and caracas were using their
newfound infamy as suspected killers to improve their business prospects they
promoted their startup film studio on [ __ ] gossip sites that ferociously
debated the murder cuadra and crackus also made it a point to keep in touch with
their potential business partners at 10 14 am on march 3rd grant roy received an
email hey grant it's harlow so when we gonna start filming you know we had an
agreement three minutes later roy received a more ominous message don't [ __ ]
with us to cement their deal quadra and caracas came to san diego for another
meeting by now however roy and lockhart were cooperating with the police they
had come under intense suspicion after coaches was killed and they wanted to
clear their names so both agreed to wear a wire when they met with quadra and
caracas on april 27th as a police helicopter worried nearby the foursome
reunited over lunch at the crab catcher restaurant in la hola roy asked quadra
if brian coaches had felt any pain when he died don't worry quadra said leaning
over to lockhart he went quick the four men agreed to meet again the following
day at black's beach a clothing optional spot north of san diego cuadra seemed
to think that no clothes would mean no wires promising to tell lockhart and roy
everything when they were on the beach nude apparently unaware of how small
recording devices had become at the beach the talk eventually turned to the day
coaches was murdered we were trying for you know some form of confession but
really when it came down to it it was more they knew so much about what they'd
done that that was damning enough on may 15th four months after the killing
harlow quadra and joseph carakas were arrested in virginia beach and charged
with homicide robbery and arson after lockhart testified both were found guilty
and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole lockhart and
roy eventually broke up with sean going on to have an extensive career in gay
porn as well as in some mainstream movies the whole ordeal was made into a movie
starring james franco and former disney star garrett clayton in 2016 though the
accuracy of its portrayal is questionable at best since then sean has pulled
back from the spotlight preferring a more private life he prefers to not talk
about brian coaches or harlow quadra within months of the brian coach's murder
and the porn world was rocked with another gut punch the streaming video
software they had helped to create in the late 90s was coming back to haunt them
the launch of pornhub.com inspired by the still young youtube pornhub was a site
designed to allow aspiring porn performers and horny imagers to post videos
online for the world to see within weeks of the site's launch people were
already uploading videos from sean cody corbin fisher falcon and bellamy it was
a copyright nightmare the legal fees of which could send many companies into
bankruptcy but not only were people posting copyrighted videos to the service
but studios now had to compete with free porn available to anyone charging 60
per video seemed absurd in a world where people could find high quality
pornographic videos for free with the click of a mouse seancody.com became
particularly litigious suing not only people who uploaded their videos to sites
like pornhub but also attempting to sue anyone who watched them pornhub tried to
gain some goodwill from the industry by taking action and removing copyrighted
content but industry professionals didn't care pornhub was breaking the business
model that had been in place since the days of mail order loops if you wanted to
watch porn you paid for it some studios suggested pornhub allow people to upload
their amateur videos but to require a paid subscription to watch them the
question then became was it legal for pornhub to make money from amateur content
if not how would they pay the uploaders how could they be sure people were
uploading original content and not simply ripping amateur looking videos from
other sites and uploading them as their own their headache came to an end in
2010 when pornhub was purchased by manwin now known as mindgeek a canadian tech
company that had spent the last few years buying up adult websites across the
net the montreal-based company specialized in online advertising and was
optimizing their streaming video sites to feature ads for adult products and any
company secure enough to have their brand associated with porn traditional
studios like falcon began buying ad space on mind geek owned websites creating
an uneasy partnership between enemies but things were about to get a lot more
uneasy over the next decade mind geek would become a monolith in the porn world
as of 2020 they owned pornhub porn md redtube uporn browsers digital playground
men.com sean cody and countless other formerly independent porn producers and
providers they even own a steak and playboy vertically integrating their
streaming and production businesses by advertising professional productions from
men.com sean cody and browsers on amateur videos on their tube sites eventually
uploading entire videos from their production arm to act as a tease for
everything available behind the paywall many in the industry today both in the
straight and gay worlds accuse mind geek of holding a monopoly over the industry
while others claim mind geeks simply saw the future coming and prepared for it
before anyone else today mindgeek is the third top consumer of internet
bandwidth in the entire world behind only google and facebook with 115 million
daily users they dwarf youtube's average of 30 million daily users it's also
estimated that mindgeek has the world's third largest pool of monetized user
data with only facebook and amazon beating them out with offices in montreal
dublin london hamburg bucharest la miami and san diego they are by far the most
far-reaching porn provider and producer on earth they've swallowed up many of
their competitors though you wouldn't know it they buy studios with an area
press release and keep them running advertising their content on their tube
sites and paying themselves for the ad space as mind geek buys up production
companies their website's monthly membership costs drop since mindgeek makes
most of its revenue from advertising and big data which puts pressure on other
producers to lower their own monthly membership fees a trend that has led many
companies to slash how much performers are paid in order to remain profitable
this is all that killed the decades-old studio system in the porn world in which
a performer will sign an exclusivity contract with a studio those contracts are
now exceedingly rare except with studios owned by mind geek to make up for the
lost income many performers have turned to independent production and
distribution with websites like only fans just for fans and even patreon popping
up to allow individual models to charge a monthly fee for self-produced content
another nail in the coffin of independent studios mind geek doesn't mind though
since most of the performers will upload preview videos to pornhub accounts to
help advertise their only fans pages and even though mind geek owns much of the
porn world at this point it's very likely you've never heard of them they stay
under the radar on purpose and their own website is so vague you wouldn't take
them for anything but another generic tech firm even their headquarters situated
not far from downtown montreal is almost camouflaged made entirely of reflective
glass it blends in almost seamlessly with the sky above mind geek's secret
monopoly has changed the world of porn for good studios now run on a quantity
over quality basis constantly fighting to make sure they have enough content to
keep subscribers happy and paying unlike the mainstream film industry's
disastrous response to netflix porn studios have adapted quickly helix studios
for instance has become well known for producing videos that are closer in
quality to high-end independent films than the overly lit multi-camera soap
opera looking videos from shawncodeyanmen.com and they're not alone cocky boys
is another studio aiming for a more cinematic quality to their porn hearkening
back to the days of when pornographers looked at adult movies as sexy films with
a lot of sex instead of just sex [Music] it's interesting to see porn evolve in
recent years as companies fight to distinguish themselves from mind geek's
monolith fans of the videos are seeing nothing but benefits for people who want
high quality erotic films helix and cocky boys have got you covered for people
who want just the sex mind geek's collection of studios like shawn cody are
there to provide for those who want more real of the moment porn there are
thousands of onlyfans accounts ready for your monthly subscription [ __ ] has
changed a lot over the last 70 years from the photos of bob miser to the films
of tom de simone and wakefield pool to the creation of studios like falcon and
catalina through the aids crisis and thousands of lost lives the creation of the
internet unprecedented growth violent murder the rise of a monopoly and now the
democratization of the industry gay porn helped to create the home video market
helped push vhs to a win over betamax and developed the very technology being
used to stream this video today the story of gay porn in the 20th and 21st
century is a lot like that of gay people ourselves hidden in the closet like so
many bob miser photos sparking a revolution to be acknowledged fighting through
a plague no one wanted to see us get through and finally now to some kind of
acceptance in the mainstream though many would be loathed to admit it [ __ ] has
helped to shape what it means to be gay it was a rare look at gay sexuality when
we were nothing but villains and jokes in hollywood films a place to feel
accepted when straight couples lined around the block to see the boys in the
sand a fantasy refuge from the aids crisis when being gay could be a viral death
sentence a digital space to feel accepted in when the bush administration fought
to enshrine gay discrimination into the constitution a place to see ourselves as
desirable when people call us freaks it says something about our society that
porn was at its most popular its most mainstream 50 years ago with the boys in
the sand and deep throat being bigger hits than anything hollywood put out what
happened why did porn go back in the closet the conservative tsunami that hit
north america in the 1980s certainly did its part but have we not progressed
since then gay men and women fought and won the right to get married and serve
in the military two of the most conservative institutions on earth and yet many
gay men won't admit that they watch porn in a 2019 poll 66 percent of gay men
said they were embarrassed to talk about porn with friends they were afraid
people would think they were perverts while 50 years ago we stood in line to see
porn in a movie theater porn isn't about to have a theater resurgence not when
hollywood itself is going more and more digital but i believe we need to open
our minds and stop being ashamed of who we are and what we watch we fought for
decades to not have to hide in a closet and yet we keep our porn hidden we
fought to not be ashamed to our families to not be shamed by the population at
large for loving who we love and here we are two decades into the new millennium
we can get married serve in the military run giant corporations run for
president and yet we're still ashamed not ashamed of being gay but ashamed of
gay sex i think it's time we stop being ashamed [Music] you