---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/ujmgqnyz190"

date: 2021-04-01
title: !!str “Killing Stalking” and The Romancing of Abuse
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "Killing Stalking and the Love of a Bad Boy (Short)"
  - "Romance is DEAD (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
  - "Killing Stalking"
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - short-advert
  - feb26-unprivate

contributors:
  downloaded: $cite$TerraJRiley
  citation: 
    - "[/u/astrienluna](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/comment/kbxuzey)"
    - "[/u/DHLawrence_sGhost](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/place_your_plagiarism_discoveries_and_queer/kgnwq7u/?context=3)"
    
cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
    stockholm: { color: 1, short: "", full: "", url: "https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/stockholm-syndrome" } # at 14:00
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

What the hell is “Killing Stalking”?

#KillingStalking #VideoEssay #manga  
\====================  

https://www.thehotline.org  
https://www.loveisrespect.org  
https://www.strongheartshelpline.org  
http://www.glbtnationalhelpcenter.org  

My Patreon:  
[link]

chAosOPUS STUDIOS  
https://www.chaosopus.com

\====================  

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Content Warning and Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="05:17" for="1. Tainted Love" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="19:58" for="2. Crazy in Love" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="22:22" for="3. Is It Love?" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="29:51" for="4. You Give Love A Bad Name" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="35:53" for="5. I Would Do Anything For Love (But I Won't Do That)" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="44:05" for="6. This Is Not A Love Song" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="52:32" for="7. Love Never Dies" %}  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

i just wanted to drop a content warning here as both physical and psychological
abuse are discussed in this video i also wanted to thank chaos opus studio who
composed the score in this video they're also an animal welfare charity that
raises money through the creation of lgbt plus media including an upcoming
animated adaptation of killing stalking you can check them out at the link in
the description and you know like share and subscribe and sign up for my patreon
for monthly exclusives like early access audio commentaries behind the scenes
featurettes and movie watch along parties alright now on with the show so if
you're anything like i was circa six weeks ago you're probably thinking what the
hell is killing stalking i too was one so naive you see the day i released the
power couple video i got an emergency call to come home because my mom was in
the hospital home for me is a five-hour drive away so instead of premiering the
video as planned i just set it to live jumped in my car and drove my mom pulled
through thank god but it was pretty touch and go for a while so as i waited in
the hospital and in my hotel room i started checking the comments on the power
couple video lots of love which i definitely needed right then but there were
also a few people absolutely haranguing me because they thought the couple in
the video's thumbnail wasn't wiccan and hulkling from marvel comics the subject
of the video but yoon bom and songwo and they were absolutely furious that i
would have the gall to portray them in any kind of positive light and all i
could think was who the hell are you in bomb and song woah if i wasn't already
in such an emotional state i would have ignored the comments as simply being
misinformed but they were calling me out on a bad day so i decided i'd better do
some research so i used the hotel's honestly shockingly good wi-fi to hop onto
the good old google.com and look up songwoo and yoon bom this is when i came
across the korean web comic killing stalking and right below that in the google
search in the people also ask section was the question does song songwoo love
yoon bom oh they're gay let's investigate now because i'm a good law-abiding
citizen who would nev ever ever pirate something i hunted around online for the
books of killing stalking which i was seeing described as a psychological
romance romantic thriller and dark romance but try as i might no online
bookstore would sell me an english version of the comic french spanish italian
german polish and korean versions were plentiful and even available with prime
shipping but nothing in english fine i'll do the bad thing and read it online
well [ __ ] so because i had nothing better to do than sit in hospital rooms and
hotel rooms i read the whole thing in two or three days all 67 issues multiple
special issues holiday issues and author notes and it was good a dark
psychological thriller about loneliness trauma and severe abuse closer to a
horror novel than a thriller right in my wheelhouse but then i thought back to
how i'd seen it described online dark yes psychological yes thriller yes a
romance it had always been described as a romance who the hell was describing
this as a romance according to the internet um a lot of people which suddenly i
understood why some commenters were so angry that they thought i'd used an image
of this couple and put power couple beside it and because i'm never one to turn
down making a mistake i decided to dive deep into the killing stalking fandom
which has a surprisingly large presence on tiktok personally i'd love the series
it was something akin to jillian flynn novels stories about extremely flawed
emotionally broken people but what i saw online was a community obsessed with
the romance between the two lead characters the emotionally stunted yoon bomb
and the serial killer he's infatuated with songwo now before we talk about why
looking at their relationship as anything even close to a romance is wrong let's
go over the plot of the series so that you know what i'm talking about [Music]
yoon bom is a depressed 20-something who's had a pretty hard life having lost
his parents at a young age he's been brought up by his grandmother and abusive
uncle he was drafted into the korean military military services compulsory in
south korea and despite his frail body and psychological instability he's still
forced to serve while in training camp he becomes the target of other recruits
who accuse him of being gay and make fun of him for looking like a girl in one
such altercation his attackers are just about to rape him when he's rescued by
another recruit a handsome young man a few years his junior songwo ever since
then yoon bomb has become infatuated with songwoo after both completed their
term of duty he began following him around finding out where he lived and even
figuring out the security code to his house based on which buttons looked to be
pushed the most yoonbom essentially becomes the stocking in killing stalking one
day he manages to actually get into the house though he's almost thwarted by a
police drive-by once inside the house he's almost euphoric to be in sangwo's
private space he has a look around but starts to hear noises from the basement
he goes down partially hoping to find songwo but is shocked to find a mutilated
young woman tied up and screaming for help but when he takes off her blindfold
she screams for him to stay away bomb hasn't noticed that seongwo has snuck up
behind him having been told that someone was in his house by the police outside
one of those officers by the way believes that seongwoo killed his own parents
but we'll get to that later so songwoo smashes bomb over the head with a bat he
tries to escape but can't get past the much larger song wow and so in an act of
panic he professes his love for him telling him that he's been in love with him
for years ever since the military songwo seems to calm down with this and even
invites him upstairs when yoon bomb asks if he's been forgiven for breaking into
his house sangwo says yes but not with his legs in that state eventually
destroying bomb's ankles with a sledgehammer and here in this dark basement
guest starring a soon-to-be corpse is where the love story of songwoo and yoon
bomb begins it's not problematic at all but when bum wakes up now chained next
to the girl who is now dead by the way songwo confesses that although he kills
women on the regular he hasn't killed a man since his father he starts
force-feeding yoon bomb some sort of porridge gruel before leaning in and
kissing him and bomb instead of fearing for his life which would you know be
understandable in the situation wonders to himself does this mean we're dating
so after an unspecified amount of time chained up in the basement assuming weeks
songwood decides it's time to bathe bomb bath bomb to wash him once he's all
clean and now dressed in girl's clothing songwoo tells him that he's going to
let him live under two conditions he never passes the threshold of the stairs at
the house entrance and he has to do all the cooking cleaning and other housework
essentially bomb under pain of death is made into songwoo's mother but bomb
needs to eat off of a plate on the floor presumably because sangwo doesn't want
to humanize him too much and sangwo watches him like a hawk even when he's on
the floor eating just waiting for him to make a mistake any mistake so that he
can physically assault him and he does on multiple occasions no offense is too
slight to bring on the wrath of songwoo eventually song woah with science bummed
the task of organizing a collection of shelves in the storage room while doing
so bum finds a bottle of rat poison and gets the idea to put it into sango's
food he'll be fine because song won't ever lets him eat at the table let alone
the same food as him but not that night no sangwo invites him up to the big boy
table and bomb is forced to eat first which makes him violently ill later that
night when bomb is done throwing his guts up seong-wo actually lays him down on
his own bed and here we discover that song was father was incredibly abusive
particularly to his mother and would force the two of them to eat off of the
floor just like he was making bomb do but just in case you thought the author
was humanizing songwoo in some way he then follows up his confession by telling
bomb that he hates people like him people who are always complaining about their
lot in life that he has no sympathy for broken people that they're useless but
for one thing and then we find out what that one thing is with an insanely
awkward sex scene that is despite what many fans think rape the power dynamic
between the two is too vast song wow has far too much control over bomb for to
not be rape sorry shippers this isn't a loving sex scene it is sexual assault
where the aggressor is a serial killer and the victim is psychologically
underdeveloped this is not romantic anyway bum continues to do everything he's
told creating a bond of trust with songwoo leading to songwoo one day saying
that he needs to go out for a little while bomb immediately decides this is the
time for him to make his escape he changes his clothes he passes the threshold
and approaches the door but then he stops and starts thinking yes life with song
wo is pretty terrible but he hasn't been so bad since they had sex not nice by
any means but not terrible but if bomb escapes and goes home he'll be left at
the mercy of his abusive uncle who we've now discovered has been raping bomb
since he was a child but at least then he'd have a modicum of freedom and so he
opens the door smelling fresh air for the first time in months but sitting on
the stoop waiting for him is songwoo this was a test you see a test that bomb
has failed and so songwa assaults him leaving him a bloody mess in the street
all the while laughing and yelling somebody save him but nobody comes this area
is mostly deserted it's a bad area of town bomb can yell and yell but no one
will save him songwoo takes him back into the house throws him back into the
basement and tortures him in a scene that would feel at home in saw now as i
mentioned earlier one of the police officers we met in the first issue has been
looking into sangwo because he's thoroughly convinced that he killed his parents
the details around their deaths are just too sketchy this has been running
throughout the series by the way he eventually decides it's time to investigate
sangwo's house and does a walk through he looks everywhere but doesn't find any
evidence of foul play he also doesn't find bomb which song won't notices once
the officer leaves still very suspicious songwell flies into a fit of rage
convinced that bomb used this opportunity to flee he searches the house the
basement outside and he can't find him anywhere but once back in the house he
finds bomb on the floor he's been hiding from the cop he grabs him you're in
tears saying they're going to be together forever in fact songwoo decides it's
time to win bomb over so he gives him some crutches since bomb's ankles are
still wrecked and takes him shopping for new clothes at one point bomb is
actually alone in the store this is a public mall he's got the chance to escape
he can approach a security guard he can call 9-1-1 this is his chance but
instead he starts to panic and looks for songwoo instead stop okay that's enough
synopsis sizing for now we need to talk about stockholm syndrome this term is
thrown around a lot and most cops and even psychologists question its validity
whether or not it even exists but in my opinion killing stalking is a textbook
case of stockholm syndrome in theory at least the term originates from a bank
robbery in stockholm sweden in 1973. john eric olsen took four employees hostage
during the robbery and held them captive for six days in one of the bank's
vaults when finally released none of the captives would testify against olson
instead they began raising money for his defense fund their sudden connection
with the captor became popularly known as stockholm syndrome the symptoms of
which are perceiving kindness or compassion from the captor or abuser developing
positive feelings toward the individual or group holding you captive or abusing
you adopting the same goals world view and ideology as your captor or abusers
feeling pity toward those abusing you refusing to leave them even when given the
opportunity to escape having negative perceptions towards police family friends
and anyone else who may try to help you escape the situation and refusing to
assist police and government authorities in prosecuting the perpetrators of
abuse or kidnapping people like to throw around this diagnosis for a lot of
things like disney's beauty and the beast where it 100 percent is not applicable
but here it 100 percent is yoonbomb hits every single one of the diagnostic
triggers for stockholm syndrome he feels songwoo is being compassionate toward
him when he so much as lets him eat he not only develops positive feelings for
song wo but fulon falls in love with him at least he believes he does he helps
songwoo to commit murders and even dispose of bodies he feels pity for songwoo
after finding out about his abusive childhood he eventually won't run away given
the chance sure his first attempt failed but what about in the mall and multiple
other instances during the series he's suspicious of the police officer trying
to help him and finally he refuses to assist the police when given the
opportunity to do so eventually the story moves on to the point where the police
officer has gotten enough evidence he believes to arrest and convict songwo for
murder and kidnapping he brings both songwoo and yoon bomb to the police station
but yoon bum won't say a bad word about songwo he's the only witness they've got
and he won't say a thing especially after seong-wo declares to the police
station that he and bomb are a couple that he loves him this declaration sends
baum into a euphoric tailspin resulting in him agreeing with everything sangwo
says refusing to cooperate with the police and eventually the police dropping
all possible charges even after songwoo tells him that he was just lying to get
the cops off of his back yoonbom holds on to the original declaration of love
that's what he wants to remember and so that's what he will remember as the
series progresses we get deeper and deeper into the supremely toxic relationship
between these two men it becomes clear if it wasn't already that both are
mentally ill yoonbomb has severe depression anxiety and abandonment issues while
senwo is a narcissistic psychopath he has a very high opinion of himself and
anyone who isn't him is basically scum tools to be used by him until they're no
longer useful to him and that's what unbomb becomes to him a tool especially for
sex these sex scenes are violent disturbing and painful to read it's honestly
very hard to believe that certain fans think that they were written to be
romantic yoonbam begins to represent songwoo's mother in more ways than one as
well not only does he care for songwoo in a motherly way but in a series of
flashbacks we also learn that sangwo's mother sexually molested him as a child
and so his now regular sex with yoon bomb is a continuation of the relationship
with his mother this drawn connection between yoon bomb and sangwo's mother
eventually becomes a source of anxiety for him though you see songwo's mother
was actually the one who killed his father he didn't do it his mother did but in
a blatant act of gaslighting she convinced her son that he killed him in a fit
of paranoia his mother decided that sangwo needed to die as well and so she
tried killing him with the very rat poison that yoon bomb attempted to kill him
with early on in the series seong-wo eventually discovered this and killed her
arguably in self-defense and so the people he trusted most in his life his
mother and his father both betrayed him in one way or another and now near the
end of the series he fears that yoon bomb will do the same thing after an injury
leaves him unable to leave the house he's forced to rely on yoonbomb to do the
grocery shopping and run errands convinced that yoon bomb is either going to run
away or kill him bum never does though but the paranoia remains during this time
the police officer who had been trying to bring songwoo down has been having
more or less a mental breakdown but a confluence of events gets him back into
the case leading into a violent confrontation between himself and songwa when
songwa is restrained he calls for yunbom to get the knife that he dropped and
kill the cop to save him bomb gets the knife but can't do it he lets it clatter
to the floor song wow is shocked looks at bomb and says simply i don't need you
anymore the cop orders bomb to run away once out in the pouring rain he stands
outside looking at the house that's been his home and prison for god only knows
how long inside the battle continues and thanks to a gas stove and a lighter an
explosion rips through the building yoonbom is taken to the hospital where he
recovers from his multiple wounds when he gets out he goes in search of sangwo
who last he'd heard was alive in another hospital here we learned that sango is
dead not from his injuries but by being smothered by another patient she
couldn't handle his mumbling through the bandages day and night all the time
calling out bomb's name the series ends with yoonbomb seeing who he thinks is
song while even though he's dead and running into traffic to chase after him
[Music] when it comes to doing an analysis of killing stalking we're going to
run into some problems what's the subtext that the author is trying to get
across what are we intended to come away with does it even matter do the
author's intentions matter how much context is needed for killing stalking and
what is meant to be just taken at face value i for one find it very unsettling
that it's perceived as romantic not only by the shippers by the way but also by
a great many people who read the comic and do understand that it's toxic alright
so if it's not a romance what is it it's a horror thriller obviously this isn't
even a psychological thriller this is full-on horror song wow is closer to
jigsaw than hannibal lecter there are a few other themes that the work might be
trying to talk about as well treatment or dismissal of the mentally ill the
dangers of a culture which thrives on obsession this is coming from the land of
k-pop after all and the negative effects of compulsory military service though i
can't speak to the reality in south korea in north america mental illness is
absolutely treated as something for which you might see a psychologist a handful
of times where you'll eventually be put on meds and never checked in on again
and that's if your insurance even covers it i have a pretty good job and it
still only covers two psych visits a year the mental wellness institution as a
whole generally doesn't much care about you yoonbom gets the overarching
diagnosis of borderline personality disorder because he obsesses over people and
then he's just tossed out into the street it really resonates with how i see the
system failing people with mental illness in the real world every single day not
to mention that in spite of his history of mental illness he is drafted for
service in the korean military because instead of treating people and offering
them the strategies and coping mechanisms they need we're going to isolate them
in an environment that is built to withhold special treatment in order to foster
an environment of conformity at which point killing stocking asks a very strange
question of the reader to discern where individual decisions begin and where
societal familial conditioning ends at what point is a toxic individual a
failure of a society at large and at what point should we start judging them for
their own actions anytime we analyze a story that is at all left open for
interpretation there are going to be people who disagree with your take on it
and just yell you just don't get it now i don't think there actually are
multiple ways of looking at killing stalking it's a horror story not a romance
but a lot of people are coming away seeing it as a romance so is there
interpretation wrong yes but let's pretend it's not let's pretend that this
story's themes are vague and look at it alongside some other works of art that
people disagree on art is in the eye of the beholder after all is killing
stocking a surface beauty and the b style romance where the monster can change
in the end or is it as i believe an analysis of trauma and abuse granted there
have been any number of times when an audience especially an academic one falls
into the trap of just assuming that everything is deeper than it really is in
fact in some cases people read into a work of fiction to find layers when there
are none intended just to justify their appreciation of it but even when things
aren't done to deliberately troll intellectuals there's a trend of intellectuals
taking a body of work and saying well if this play is deep then they all must be
deep like half of shakespeare if not more is that a hot take not not really like
come on the man wrote almost 40 plays in 20 years you can't expect every one of
them to have a nuanced insightful world vision he had to put food on the table
for him and his troop of actors and his boyfriend he was a businessman before he
was a creator most of what he wrote was on commission that doesn't mean that
hamlet or macbeth aren't excellent expressions of literary subtlety but there
isn't much that's subtle about titus andronicus where the hero takes the two
sons of the villain bakes them into a pie and feeds them to her it's basically
shakespeare's slasher movie which that's why it's my favorite shakespeare play
and the biggest fallacy of his career was that romeo and juliet arguably his
most iconic work wasn't meant to be a classic like big shock time all those guys
in high school english who gagged at the gratuitous romance in the play who were
dismissed by the english teacher were actually right see aside from the fact
that this is a grotesque amount of romance that chokes out what little plot
actually exists in romeo and juliet there are a number of dated cultural
contexts that highlight that this is a relationship shakespeare would have
considered toxic taking this into consideration it becomes a cautionary tale
juliet referring to her love as being in excess was a key feature elizabethan
england was stuck in a bit of an austerity kick where modernity and temperance
were strongly valued anything in excess was seen as dysfunctional so the fact
that they both die at the end really should have been a tip-off shakespeare was
probably thinking the fact that their affair leads to both of their deaths
should tell audiences that this is a bad nobody's going to find death romantic
romeo and juliet therefore should not be viewed as a romance but a satire a
parody of romance and romantic plays i'm sure most people are more accustomed to
hearing about satire and parody when it's comedic which it is much easier to
make a clear thematic satire when it comes to comedy but satire is just a matter
of pushing a medium into the territory of the carnivalesque actions decisions
reactions and elements of design and theme are so absurd that they reach a point
where it's impossible to take them seriously at least that's the idea satire is
usually comedy because if you're trying to defame the nazis it's easy to do so
by making them look like fools because you're simply taking elements of how they
already were foolish in history and amplifying it sometimes you can get away
with being honest in comedic satire because the events that you were making fun
of really were that ridiculous and sometimes you have to tone it back or people
will think it's too over the top stalin is invincible the force of [ __ ] death
back to the salt mine what's happening this is impossible and maybe he's
appointing his successor a drawback to this is that it's not always entirely
clear what is being made fun of this is especially true in absurdist or ironic
depictions is south park making fun of al gore claiming that climate change is
an imaginary issue or are they doing the opposite and making fun of the people
who dismiss al gore saying that what they imagine al gore acts like isn't the
reality of how he portrays himself and for reference south park's defenders
often do use the you just don't get a defense when it comes to criticisms
directed at them and they do tend to cross the line every once in a while but
this video is not about south park satire can also be dramatic though this is
less common in modern media however here we take culture and history and rather
than amplify the ridiculousness take elements of violence bigotry romance
political ideology or even culture itself and bring the real life absurdity to
the audience's attention the hope is for these themes to be read as societal
problems a downside to this is that the line between satire and reverence is
very narrow was stanley kubrick presenting a horrifying depiction of
psychological conditioning trauma and groupthink as it exists in the american
military and full metal jacket i mean that's probably how he intended it but if
you're an individual who values elements of hyper masculinity pro-violence and
american imperialism then you can just as easily see full metal jacket as a
shining testament to an era when men were men and weak undeserving men simply
snapped under the pressure in which real men persisted as for what kubrick
intended it's a little bit difficult to gauge he offered phenomenally little
information about what his films were intended to really be about he liked to
see them as a litmus test which had more to say about the observer depending
upon how they would interpret the film this is epitomized in his final film eyes
wide shut which is about something even when some of us think there's no way
someone could have positive interpretations of a work there is someone who's
going to read a clockwork orange and think yeah that's what masculinity means
and the government is the villain because they they brainwashed him out of his
individuality but in instances like kubrick's nuanced vagueness can we really
use intention as a means to analyze works of fiction all this is to say that i'm
taking an analysis of killing stalking very seriously and even though my focus
is as you might have been able to tell the audience's attitudes about it it's
important to know that people can see art in very different ways one of the most
significant philosophies of art criticism comes from jean boulliard he argues in
very generalized terms that we as a society have lost or are losing our ability
to tell the difference between artifice and nature meaning we can't really see a
clear difference between a performance and an earnest state of being what is
real and what is counterfeit and to what degree can we tell the difference
between the two this is more in the vein of say being unsure if the kardashians
or errant airheads or whether this role is emphasized in their programming in
order to fulfill a brand which they use to solidify and expand their platform
hey bestie this is especially true in instances of long-spanning performance art
as you could see among lady gaga cher madonna or even people like ann coulter
donald trump where the performance ends and the individual begins and how much
they overlap are both areas of debate an extrapolation of this in the situation
of killing stalking is whether this is intended to be a work of fiction which
plays upon and subverts romantic tropes or whether it's earnestly romantic when
i read it i read a very conflicted horror story where neither of the main
characters were particularly meant to be admirable and where the element of
romance was there to highlight the insidiousness of song woo and the dysfunction
of yoonbom as this is a visual novel meaning that the visual language is just as
important as the written text there are a number of instances in the comic
itself specific panels which can be removed and shown as romantic instances of
cuddling hugging and kissing are all present granted this is usually before or
after someone is tortured or killed or buried very romantic but does this
ability to separate these romantic elements form a kind of phantom plot in which
the perceived romance runs parallel to the actual depiction of the toxic
relationship this could encourage someone to against all reason deliberately
read romance into situations where there is none this is to say nothing of the
special issues for christmas and thanksgiving whereas songwoo and yoonbomb are
depicted romantically or erotically and without any torture except for the
people that they are murdering and disposing of but they're doing it together on
one hand is this a matter of depicting a relationship at peak toxicity or is
this exploiting a will they want a romantic format to keep audiences tuned in
for 67 issues because in spite of these seemingly apparent layers and the
seemingly self-aware damnation of its own content killing stalking has acquired
a certain following in spite of the obvious or what seems to me to be obvious
messaging about how damaging and traumatic this relationship is if you can even
call it a relationship which i don't there is a swath of fans who lean toward
the will they won't they take that this whole journey is a progressing romance
leading to seong wo finally giving in to his feelings stopping hurting yoon bomb
and then running off together with him the torture has been fantasized as a kind
of love you to death kind of thing like songwa is so in love with yoonbomb but
the only way he knows how to express affection is through abuse all sangwo needs
to do is learn how to properly express his feelings of affection and then
everything will just turn out fine being honest the implication throughout the
series is that seong-wo keeps yoonbomb alive because he reminds him of a
maternal figure which you'd think would lead an audience to immediately connect
him with norman bates well a boy's best friend is his mother but they don't but
maybe these people haven't watched as many movies as i have or even the tv show
bates motel so which is it gore porn or star-crossed romance or a character
study of stockholm syndrome we could look to the author who in front of every
issue plasters a big old disclaimer that very explicitly says that this is a
depiction of abuse and dysfunction which you know that must clear it up right
done deal maybe because we're also in an era of joanne karen rowling prefacing
everything with i love the transsexuals but this tactic is called dog whistling
which is doing or saying something hateful but in a vague enough way that you
can credibly say that's not what i was actually saying people who are racist and
homophobic and transphobic will be emboldened by the message and people who are
indifferent or centrist will take it for granted as a joke and even they
themselves dismiss the haters as social justice snowflakes in periods past it
was considered a point of pride to clearly advocate for your beliefs but these
were also eras which had a very clear hierarchy of privilege and there was no
shame in supporting the hierarchy today where the majority of progress is
dedicated to dismantling these systems of privilege and oppression there is an
awareness of the right thing to say even if you don't necessarily believe it
indicative of the i'm not racist but line that always is followed by something
racist people want to be seen as progressive or at least on the right side while
still holding on to privileged attitudes and cultural stereotypes even bigoted
people know how to properly carry themselves in order to advance their platform
and not do or say anything too extreme in public there's a reason the kkk wears
hoods much in the same way that song wo knows how to act like a normal person in
society so that he can blend in despite being a crazed psychopath i wasn't just
comparing jk rowling to a psychopath what are you talking about so the series is
written by a korean author and illustrator who goes by the name of coogie for
whom there is next to no information available online i did manage to track down
and translate an interview from 2018 where she was asked if there was any
sincere feeling of love between the two lead characters she responded it's up to
the readers to decide if i have to decide then no okay but it's a bit odd that
on every site where this is available for purchase or even for just reading it's
listed as a romance on amazon it's even classified as lgbt plus marriage comedy
she's also said that the book should be categorized as a psychological horror
story and not a romance of any kind though to be fair if you visit her twitter
the page is mostly populated with romantic fan art of yoon baum and songwell so
where she really stands on how the series should be read might be up for
interpretation but let's take her at her word in the 2018 interview that she
does not intend on this being read as a romance in any way then why does the fan
base read it like one and why when i did my initial google search was it so
often described as a psychological romance romantic thriller dark romance well
there's two answers to that question one the fans are doing the categorizing two
publishing yes the archaic slowly dying traditional publishing industry which
has real difficulty when it comes to queer themes and books especially involving
men you see when a book is being published the publisher has to decide what kind
of categories the book falls into so that it can be marketed to the proper
audience and when a book comes around with a gay lead character who doesn't have
a romance in the plot they have no idea how to classify it women don't want to
read a book about a gay straight men certainly don't want to read a book about a
gay gays barely want to read a book about a gay but a gay romance well according
to market research women eat that up so much so that it makes up for the loss of
a potential straight male audience gay readers don't really factor into the
thought process which is a problem in itself and something i'll cover in another
video and so we come to killing stalking is this a romance no even the author
says so but are there romantic elements not really but could there maybe be
perceived romantic elements if you tilt it the right way and read it under a
quarter moon during february of a leap year maybe sold into the m m romance
category you go they don't just have to pick one category though which is why
the much more applicable psychological thriller and horror tags also get put on
there so when readers are self-categorizing the book online it becomes a
psychological romance romantic thriller dark romance so from the synopsis of
killing stalking i think it's pretty clear that both characters yoon bom and
sangwo are not mentally stable but in two very different directions both of
their lives have become disasters since they were children with abusive
caregivers in both cases that's why there is no romance in this story there's no
actual love between these two characters yoon bomb thinks he loves song wou
because seongwoo rescued him from being assaulted something that no one else has
ever done not even his grandmother who seemingly cared for him but looked the
other way when her son baum's uncle would beat and rape him and sengwo does not
love yoonbomb he uses him for sexual pleasure and his own emotional support but
that's it but you wouldn't think that by going over the comments online many not
all but many of the fans of this series would have you believe that it's a
beauty and the beast style love story a tale as old as time that it's about two
lost souls finding each other and helping each other become a whole people if
i've not yet made myself clear that is not what this is about so why do they
think that well yoon bomb isn't immediately killed by song woah unlike his other
victims therefore this must mean that he's special this must mean that songwo
cares for him whether or not he's good at showing it bomb should certainly stand
out amongst seong-wo's victims but that's because he's a man sangwo is a
misogynistic sexual sadist getting joy from torturing and murdering women and
because he is psychologically damaged he essentially kills his mother over and
over and over and over again by murdering women and then goes home to his mother
in the form of yoonbum who he then assaults mentally and physically just like
his own father did to his own mother sometimes he has moments of clarity where
he realizes what he's doing but they don't last long sometimes he'll even beg
yoonbomb to not leave him breaking down into tears but this is simply emotional
manipulation he's using bomb's abandonment issues to manipulate him into staying
we know this because when bomb drops the knife during the final altercation
seong-wo tells him he doesn't need him anymore lashing out at him and calling
him down to the lowest so what about yoonbom he grew up being neglected by
everyone except his sexual abuse of uncle who would tell him that he was gross
disgusting especially after raping him he was socially awkward making it near
impossible for him to make friends when people would start to get close to him
they'd be put off by how shy and awkward he was so when sangwo hugs him kisses
him says he loves him says he'll be together forever even after crippling him
choking him hanging him and cutting his throat just just deep enough so that he
won't bleed out yoonbomb looks past the trauma and abuse and just sees the
affection because it's the only affection he's ever gotten from anyone so he
latches on to it even after he knows that song wo is dead he can't let go and
despite the fact that song won't never shows any unconditional kindness to bomb
even insulting him when doing something that could be characterized as kind some
readers still look for a love story they've taken an incredibly horrifying
twisted story of trauma and abuse and twisted it further so that they can ship
it they don't see it as a horror story and hope for bomb to escape his monstrous
captor they hope for songwo to declare his undying love they don't want sangwo
to get arrested for being a serial killer they want the pair to ride off into
the sunset this isn't two sad broken people who have found each other and made
each other whole this is a twisted psychopath manipulating a poor lonely boy
into being his puppet this is a story that warns us about the effects of
long-term abuse on two very different people how sometimes lifelong trauma is
inescapable without a support system killing stalking in my opinion is an
amazing psychological horror story one that kept me swiping through those pages
unable to put it down hoping that yoon bomb would escape that seongwel would be
caught that yoon bomb would be rescued and given the help that he needs and yet
there are masses of fans out there who want them to get back together in the end
who flame the author online when she ended the series with songwoo dead the
monster dies in the end he doesn't transform into a handsome prince because he
always was one but not all the glitters is gold the fact that song wo looks like
the man of your dreams is meant to show you that even the person you think is
perfect could be a monster underneath to watch out for yourself to not let
yourself get trapped into this kind of traumatic relationship the author has
said in no uncertain terms that she did not intend this to be read as romantic
despite her twitter feed so why in seven hells are people especially teenage
girls reading this as a romance well because they've been raised too no beauty
and the beast is not about stockholm syndrome it's about a woman who is forced
into a castle and has to work at making the monster she shares it with into a
respectable human being for her own sake the original french folk tale
functioned as a way to ease young women into accepting marriage arrangements
especially those in upper classes where their husbands were usually the shining
exemplars of wealthy male privilege to the women betrothed this seemed to be
like an awful proposition and to ease them into it there needed to be some kind
of device that told them that it gets better you know so they wouldn't kill
themselves even if it was an errant lie that sounds familiar so it's not like
the idea that a woman can change a man is new culture has been placing the onus
on women to be the active force in taking control of men's behavior for all of
christianized european history if not longer and it's from this beauty and the
beast attitude that we get the idea that all a woman needs to change her
monstrous romantic partner is a little elbow grease and so we end up here with
killing stalking which is neither an arranged marriage nor a heterosexual
coupling very 21st century at which point we are at this weird junction where
we're kind of pulled between seven different thought processes about cultural
attitudes towards representation romance gay men femininity femininity in men
art criticism attitudes around common sense the zeitgeist fandom social
connectivity and isolation mental health social possibility nobody should need
to do this nobody nobody should need to look at killing stalking and say well we
need to know if the borderline personality diagnosis was an accurate one to say
with confidence whether the author meant for this to be read as erotic or not no
sangwo kills people he literally kills people and not in a dark avenger punisher
kind of way he takes joy in murdering people for fun full stop and you and bob
he's not in love with song woo he just can't tell the difference between love
and abuse if you read this and your first instinct is to put these two [ __ ] up
people together for life there is a problem there is a problem with you there's
a problem with our culture i know from reading the comments of killing stocking
tick tock compilations which are almost as unsettling as the source material
that a lot of the reader base are young women like middle school they talk about
reading it in class hiding it from their teachers even if you have experimented
with dating you have such a narrow concept of what it means to actually be in a
relationship at that age you have no idea what functional relationship even
means and trust me a lot of older people don't know either this is not just an
abusive relationship this is an abusive relationship engaging in a carnival of
over-the-top violence gaslighting manipulation and rape i am so unsettled
thinking about how our society is presenting a young generation with such a
twisted idea of romance to the point where there is a shipping community built
around these two [ __ ] because this isn't just killing stalking this didn't
come out of nowhere it wasn't straight from beauty and the beast this the
pro-romance killing stalking fandom is just the next logical step in the
evolution of romanticizing abuse especially when you've got twilight where
edward and bella's relationship ticks off every single qualification of an
abusive relationship as qualified by social workers and still there is this
paining over the protagonists like this is a they're going to make it after all
love story about making things work even if your parents in society don't like
it don't even get me started on 50 shades of grey it was hyped up as this racy
sexy over-the-top intense sexual romp through bdsm and then i read it not
knowing what the hell the hype was about because i'd read anne rice's sleeping
beauty series in junior high maybe a little too young but i was mature for my
age so in 50 shades women kind of swoon over christian grey even though he's
obsessively controlling anastasia he violates safe words meddles in her personal
life and oversteps boundaries regularly and the fans are all like oh i invade my
privacy heart or daddy then you get things like phantom of the opera which you
know a lot of people read into the fact that the phantom named eric is literally
a psycho who murders people and tries to lock up his love interest christine in
a basement but in spite of this you still get fans who drone on about how
christine was so dumb not to choose eric because eric was just so rally sexual
and overpowering and oh he really does care underneath it all he threatened to
kill her oh but maybe he's good i read killing stalking as an honest
interpretation of these tropes which is a hell of a thing to do subverting toxic
literary tropes by confronting them with the reality of how they function in
real life the only difference is that the author doesn't try to force a romance
into the text even if a huge portion of her fans think that she ruined the
ending by probably killing off the serial killer which is why they fill her
twitter timeline with fan art of their preferred ending of these two characters
christmases family reunions vacations song wow a serial killer who killed women
to reenact killing his mother over and over and over again finally getting in
touch with his feelings realizing that he was gay all along and taking it upon
himself to cater to yoon bomb's emotional needs because no he's not gay it is
stated in the text and the author has stated he is not gay he is a straight man
who is using yoonbomb as a device for to fulfill his needs and then the months
that yoon bombs spent locked in song most house and basement with broken ankles
it's just a story to tell their adopted kids but you know christian gray learns
to share the power dynamic and even sub for anastasia in the end and bella
eventually gains the ability to protect herself and thus does not require edward
to be so obsessive belle's beast turns into a man who made a whole generation of
people realize they preferred furries eric the phantom finally does learn to
empathize with someone else's needs and lets christine go kind of not really
there's a sequel called love never dies don't watch it at which point it occurs
to me that it wasn't the romance in the story that the fans fetishize but the
possibility of song wow changing and becoming romantic it's this yearning
obsession for redemption arc that the fans want it's not even that the fandom is
choosing to overlook the abuse and the violence and the murder the fandom
embraces all of this it's just a part of the bumpy road on the way to love this
is songwoo's journey this is songwoo's redemption this is songwoo's story even
though it's not the story is explicitly framed from yoonbomb's point of view and
it's his emotions and struggles that drive the plot sangwo at best is an
obstruction but should it be that surprising that audiences are drawn to a
character who is depicted to be attractive and nearly every review of the book
calls to attention just how hot he is i mean doesn't everyone want to be with
someone who's hot what's a little character flaw like psychopathy and murder
when you're sexy all of the fandom is focused less around yoonbomb's experience
and more about how songwell looks which a crowd of girls fawning over attractive
serial killers pleading for his innocence isn't new i find it weird that this
audience is simultaneously dismissive of yoon bomb as a character while at the
same time fits into the category of girls who fetishize gay relationships what's
the thought process here are a bunch of women looking at a submissive gay man as
a cipher their entry way into this relationship or have they just kind of moved
past the sadness of brokeback mountain and the yearning of love simon and they
need something a bit more spicy for their gays now all of this makes me wonder
why did it need to be gay in the first place was there anything said in this
comic that couldn't have been conveyed if yoonbomb was a woman or even if sangwo
was a woman were the sex scenes actually necessary did they fulfill a pivotal
use in driving the plot character yes but were so many of them necessary maybe
if yoon bomb was a woman the author would have been more sparing in their use of
physical abuse maybe it would have hit too close to home but by making bum a man
it allows a layer of disconnect and all the major plot beats worth talking about
don't seem to include any elements of sex whatsoever and it's these sexual
moments that the fans latch onto and say yes the romance is real song wow just
needs a chance to open up which even though the author won literary awards in
the category of horror thriller it did go on to be categorized as a romance did
people pick it up expecting a romance and read into it or would they have seen
that from the very beginning textually it does draw a thin line between teasing
unbomb with a romance and teasing the audience the latter of which is not okay
and i'm not trying to say whether this should or should not have been made
because all art has a place there is a context for every piece of earth that can
add value to our world both for enriching our culture conveying a message about
the world we live in or even acting as a confrontation between what we believe
about our culture and what the reality of that culture is killing stalking has a
lot of interesting nuanced layered and poignant things to say that make it work
as a horror story and stories like it are actually often enjoyed by people who
have suffered abuse a way for them to see that they're not alone in their trauma
survivors of abuse can often feel very isolated so seeing someone who has been
hurt like them in fiction can be very cathartic but all of these things are
being overshadowed by how a fetishistically appropriative audience has turned it
into a romance novel and this is concerning to me not just about how these
people read the media they consume but also if they might think that this type
of relationship is normal do they have the ability to understand when they are
in an abusive relationship are they going to do the right things and confront
their friends when they're in an abusive relationship or are they going to push
through and encourage others to do so in the hope that something beautiful will
blossom out of the trauma or are they completely aware of what is safe and
acceptable for them but their ideas are different for queer people as we in real
life progress more and more towards sexual tolerance and acceptance of safe
sexual practices in kink s m and role play are we challenging fiction to raise
the bar as we have fewer real-life applications of forbidden love are we as a
culture raised on folklore about enduring abuse for romance increasing the
amount of abuse that must be sustained to achieve true love we need to be more
open to discussing abuse so listening to those who have been abused so that they
might feel comfortable telling their stories so that people can better judge
what is healthy and what is not what is safe and what is dangerous we need to
make it safe for the victims of abuse to feel safe otherwise people and not just
young people will continue to think that the relationship between songwoo and
yoon bomb is true love that enduring trauma is fine for the right person that
it's a necessary part of falling in love abuse is never a necessary part of
falling in love and so in the description of this video i've listed resources
and links for anyone who might feel that they've become trapped in an abusive
relationship abuse is not love trauma is not romance please do not let they can
change trap you in an unhealthy or dangerous situation get away while you can
because a happily ever after should never involve pain you