---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/xsrv2lxp0by"

date: 2021-07-31
title: '"Painter of the Night" and the Sadism of Class'
status: Script
aka: !!seq
  - "The Sadism of Class"
  - "The Real Burden of Being Rich (Short)"
topics: !!seq
  - "Painter of the Night"
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes: 
  - odd-linebreaks
  - feb26-unprivate

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

There's so much more going on in "Painter of the Night" than just sex and violence.

My Patreon:  
[link]

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Intro" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="03:47" for="Part 1 - Spilling Tea" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="11:15" for="Part 2 - Subjugation Fetish" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="18:27" for="Part 3 - We Eat Our Own" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="30:17" for="Part 4 - We Are All Parasites" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="41:27" for="Part 5 - Class Contrast" %}  

#PainteroftheNight #Manga #VideoEssay

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

SO, Back to the increasingly popular world

of Korean Manhwa we go! After the Killing Stalking video came out

in April, I got, literally, thousands of messages and comments from people
telling me that I

definitely needed to read Painter of the Night. That it was a lot like Killing
Stalking, especially

in its use of sexual abuse as a plot point.  Though I was a little worried that
a lot of

people on the internet now thought of me as the guy who talks about disturbing
Korean

media, I eventually gave in and checked it out. And… I really had no idea what
people

were talking about. I didn't find it anywhere near as disturbing as Killing
Stalking. I

think because Painter of the Night is a period piece, set about 200 years ago
during the

Joseon Dynastic period in Korea.  And because it was set two hundred years ago,

and I’m a fan of history, I wasn't really all that shocked at some of the things
I was

seeing. Blackmail, r*pe, murder… Not exactly unheard of at a time when America
was being

built off of the backs of African slaves, and England was subjugating more
non-white

people across the world than any super power before them.  I was particularly
un-shocked because the

people doing the blackmailing, r*ping, and murdering were, for the most part,
rich. The

elite of Korea. Who could get away with pretty much anything because they had
money and influence.

I thought, of course people are being abused by the rich. That’s just how it
goes. And then I realized something about myself

that was pretty depressing. In the year of our lord, 2021, I have become so used
to seeing

the rich do terrible things and get away with it, that it had become so
commonplace in my

mind, that i wasn't the least bit shocked when it was taken to the poetic degree
of

the poor literally being r*ped by the rich, instead of figuratively r*ped by
them.  I had become so jaded by the economic horrors

of our current situation that seeing them on a page had little effect on me.
And don't get me wrong, the content in this

comic is still disturbing. The abuse and gaslighting is extreme, even from
characters who aren't

technically villains. And, of course, it wouldn’t be the number one manwha on
the internet if

there wasnt some sexual assault thrown in there as well. Like, in every issue. A
lot

of sex. To the point where some of the original working titles for the series,
from the author

herself, were “Painter of Sex” and “Pornography: A Scandal in Joseon”. So lots
of sex and sexual abuse, lots of emotional

manipulation and abuse. And the rich abusing the poor in every which way
possible. I guess

this is my brand now. Let’s discuss.  Painter of the Night is a story set in
historic

Korea. It follows the titular painter, Nakyum, as he is more or less abducted by
a nobleman,

Yoon Seungho, who has been largely estranged from his family due to having a
reputation

for being a bit too horny. Nakyum is a talented painter who had been unable to
find a patron

to support his work, and so he’s resorted to painting erotic depictions of
sodomy to

make ends meet. Which is basically how digital artists function

today. Nakyum would have struck it rich if he got commissioned by some furries.
Seungho is totally into it. And in spite of

Nakyum using a pseudonym to sell collections of his naughty pictures, Seungho
manages to

track him down. But when he does, Nakyum is living as a drunk, and has all but
given up

erotic painting for mysterious reasons. Unfortunately for Nakyum, the nobleman
doesn’t take ‘no’

for an answer. And one thing leads to another and then There’s

the little Twink, painting pictures of Seungho boning other dudes. While it
takes some time

for Seungho to turn his sexual appetites to his prisoner-slash-beneficiary, it
does happen,

and it’s… absolutely not consensual. At least not at first. It goes on for a
while,

sometimes with Seungho getting explicitly violent, and then Nakyum eventually
doing

it “willingly” just to avoid Seungho’s temper. See. Seungho is the eldest child
of the Yoon

Family, which, historically, has been of great significance and influence.
However, over

the prior few generations, the family’s prestige has been waning, and their
political

influence is dwindling. Culminating in Seungho living the high life, riding out
what’s

left of his family’s stately goodwill. Smoking opium and hosting wild gay orgies
for the

other rich boys. He’s considered a black sheep of the family and is — said — to

be the reason his relatives abandoned their estate and relocated to the
countryside. Though

that’s in question, as his father was involved in a treasonous plot, and then
disappeared

shortly thereafter. Seungho is constantly advised that his reputation

is going to run the family into the ground, but he doesn’t really much listen to
that.

He neither has interest in politics nor business, opting exclusively for
hedonistic excess,

though commanding so much fear over the locals that they keep theses rumour on
hushed lips.

The other local highborn citizens tolerate Yoon Seungho... from a distance. By
the time he ostensibly kidnaps Nakyum — and

later gaslights him into believing that he chose to go with him — Seungho is
already

deep into this cycle of rumour and privileged dismissal. However, the first
significant

change noted in Seungho’s character happens shortly after he abducts Nakyum.
Nakyum had a teacher, you see, who is both

a role model and an object of his affection — Jung In-Hun. When Seungho susses
out who,

exactly, this learn’d man is, he tracks him down in an attempt to somehow use
him

to manipulate Nakyum into painting dirty pictures — a task that Nakyum has,
until that point,

actively resisted. When we meet Jung, it is shortly before he

is approached by Seungho. He is discussing why he does so little to teach
children to

read — what he was literally employed to do — and spends so much time instead on

his own studies. He retorts that there isn’t much point in educating children
because they’re

going to be farmers, anyway, and it would just be a wasted skill. Thus, his
talents

are in much better service to the state preparing himself for a career in
politics that has

yet to manifest. And so he’s been living in this kind of

limbo of talking about getting stuff done but not really doing anything and just
living

off the goodwill of local farmers without providing anything of substance in
return.

So when Lord Yoon Seungho approaches him and says that he would like to make
Jung the first

state official the Yoon family has elevated in decades, Jung jumps at the
opportunity.

In spite of Seungho’s bad reputation, naturally. Jung immediately suspects that
as the reason

why Seungho keeps the kid around. And then proceeds to do nothing but guilt-trip
and

slut-shame Nakyum. Seeing Seungho as a threat, Jung decided he

needs more information as leverage. And so when he encounters Nakyum attempting
to flee

Seungho who has, at this point, begun sexually assaulting him, Jung tells the
painter that

he really ought to go back with him to the estate, and that Nakyum should spy on
Seungho

for him. And it should go without saying that Nakyum

is completely infatuated with Jung because boys like him in fiction have a thing
for

jerks, bullies, and teachers. And it’s a bit of an emotional blow when Jung does
leave

the Yoon estate and the last thing he says to Nakyum is that he’s become a
filthy prostitute. After that he’s moved out of the story.

Though, as he is consistently referenced, he will likely return when the third
season

starts up again. Since then, the recent twenty-odd chapters

have a much greater focus on class structure.  Well… okay, the focus is, as
always, the

white blob that would otherwise be Yoon Seungho’s penis. But in between those
sections there

is a lot of drama that does not involve penises. First — Seungho’s ex, Lee
Jihwa, a noble

who he had dumped in favor of the painter, figures he can win back Seungho by
paying

a criminal named No-Name to assassinate Nakyum. And… yes that is a little
extreme, but it’s

not like he hasn’t tried a few other things to sabotage Seungho’s opinion of the
painter. And Jihwa’s scheme ties into another sub

plot focusing on a servant in the Yoon Estate who is more than a little upset at
Nakyum’s

perceived privileges. Also the fact that Seungho routinely beats the staff. It
doesn’t help that Seungho actively prevents

Nakyum from interacting with the servants, despite Nakyum’s preference for
taking meals

with them, working in the kitchens, and their company in general. And Seungho
will take

it out on the staff if he catches his delicate painter sullying his hands with
the other

common folk. So he begins to dress Nakyum in fine clothes,

feeds him the best food the estate has to offer — on top of the spacious living
arrangements

he’s given to sleep and paint in. The trade off is… you know. Complete sacrifice
of

personal autonomy, isolation from loved ones, and being shut off from the
outside world

if he is not chaperoned by a Yoon servant. Which, if Seungho has romantic
feelings for

Nakyum, as much of the fanbase believes that he does, you’d think he’d put in a
little

more effort to making Nakyum smile. Jesus, first Sangwoo, now Seungho — what is
it

with fangirls flocking to men who make boys cry? Anyway, this slighted servant,
Doek-Je — begins

to spy for team Jihwa. But he becomes a loose end and has to be eliminated.
Turns out nobody

noticed he was gone, though. Including me. Nick had to point it out. Jihwa also
decides not to go through with

the assassination, and ends up bottoming for the mega-hot daddy-assassin
instead. But that’s a sex scene we didn’t get to

see. And while it may seem like the noble classes

are nothing but appalled when it comes to even touching poor people, they seem
to make

an exception when it comes to having sex with them. Even if they hold it against
each-other

when the post-nut clarity settles in. Because, distracted by white-blob penises

though we may be, the very core of Painter of the Night is about the many ways
that rich

people… f*ck poor people. So, hear me out, even outside just the general

rich person screwing poor person theme, there is an abundance of other examples
of class

interactions that we can read into in this work. Start with the… relationship
between Nakyum

and Seungho. In the most direct terms, it’s very much a class-based
relationship. You have a rich guy, and he’s literally

f*cking a poor guy. Whether the poor guy likes it or not. The whether-he-likes
it or not is the curious

part. Because Nakyum does eventually find himself aroused by Seungho. And he
begins

to reject options to escape the manor, maybe even specifically to stay with
Seungho. Though

there’s just as much evidence to say that he is immensely threatened by Seungho,
and

for good reason. Whether its using violence or extreme coercion, Seungho gets
what he

wants.And Nakyum, as a character, eventually decides it’s easier to just fall in
line.

And Painter of the Night really should depict this development as a tragedy. And
it does…

you just have to read into it a little… a lot. Those of wealth and power usually
maintain

their wealth by a consistent threat of things maybe getting worse for the poors
around them.

It’s a very pivotal tactic of how those in positions of authority manipulate the
under-classes. If you ask for the minimum wage to increase,

apparently, employers won’t have enough money to keep the lights on and then
you’ll

lose out on your job altogether? Isn’t it just better for everyone to keep wages
the

way they are, so at least you’ll have SOMETHING? Or — If everyone has universal
healthcare, your

Unions will… explode… or something— They never really make a clear argument for

that one.Anyway. I digress! Eventually, Seungho does promise not to (physically)

hurt Nakyum anymore. Though… this is immediately after threatening

to kill him and/or a close sister figure for trying to escape. So even though
Seungho does

seem like the safest option to Nakyum at this point, alternative options have
been systemically

blocked, removed, and forbidden.  And so when Nakyum turns to Seungho for
protection

or comfort, it’s because there has been such a dependency fostered that there’s

simply no other way for him to receive the human needs that he has been starved
for. (Which… this is the point in our world where

Wal-Mart has already shut down the last independent retail store so you’re
either working for

the Waltons, or you’re collecting welfare. And your democratic state
representative has

just said ‘pull yourself up by your bootstraps’ in a speech so you know what’s
coming next.

You don’t have a choice, but hey… you are consistently told that you have your
freedom.)Just

like Nakyum is consistently told that he has a choice. That he chose to live
there. That

he chooses to sleep with Seungho. Just like corporate America tells you that
you, personally,

chose for that Walmart to open up and suck business and jobs out of your
community — to

take those profits out of the community where they end up horded in a Walmart
corporate

account somewhere offshore. Yes, this dependency was also an element of

Killing Stalking, and it’s just as not-okay here as it was there — maybe more so
here

because it is framed as at least somewhat romantic. However, unlike Killing
Stalking,

there is an additional class dynamic at play. Especially one where a great
amount of detail

is given to character interactions. Seungho’s interactions are the most
ubiquitous, but

other characters have a great deal of significance as well. Jung In-Hun, for
instance, Nakyum’s teacher,

Is an educated man with political aspirations. He’s dissatisfied living as a
teacher and

yearns for a political station which he feels he deserves, though does
absolutely nothing

but sit on his ass to achieve. He makes it very clear that he sees himself as
above the

common farmers in the area, and that he’s quite far above Nakyum. He sees Nakyum
as a disappointment, a degenerate

who chooses to paint pornography. Even though Nakyum both used his trade in
order to survive,

and began painting these scenes to cope with traumatic experiences he witnessed
growing

up in what may be a the equivalent of a brothel.  All the while Jung takes
Nakyum’s reverence

for him for granted, at the same time as actively not giving a single thought to
Nakyum’s

circumstances. Jung consistently berates Nakyum for engaging in Seungho’s
perversions, even

though he, himself owes his livelihood to Seungho. Jung is an intended social
climber. He’s

willing to make exceptions for where he, himself relies on the wealthy because
he fully expects

that he, himself, belongs among them. Seungho, both in front of Jung and behind

his back, makes it clear he doesn’t really have strong feelings for the teacher
one way

or another. He openly tells Jung that he’s not at smart as he thinks he is and
Jung stomachs

the insults, because he still needs Seungho to achieve his goals. But Jung’s ego
never

really lets it get under his skin as much as it should. He’s more than happy to
lick the boot...

as long as it gets him ahead.  He doesn’t have any principles to speak

of... as long as it gets him ahead.  He cares for Nakyum when it’s convenient,

but if Nakyum’s safety is entirely secondary to his social climb, and if Nakyum
isn’t

helping HIM first and foremost, he doesn’t really have much patience for the
boy’s

complaining. Regardless of how both he and Nakyum suffer

under Seungho. Okay, all Jung has to endure is the occasional jab at his bad
poetry. But

regardless of how they both dislike Seungho, Jung will routinely badger Nakyum
into respecting

the due etiquette of the social classes. Because if Jung tells Nakyum to fight
Seungho,

or run away, or do anything to subvert him, then he is telling Nakyum to fight
against

the system that he plans to be part of. I would venture to say that he’s even
more

unlikable than Seungho. Because as a character… at least Seungho is upfront
about what he’s

after, and honest about his methods. This theme goes less like ‘power corrupts’

and is more like ‘the ability to acquire power corrupts.’  Or even ‘the presence
of power, even if

unobtainable, corrupts.’ Because even if Jung does become a government

official, with no real textual evidence that he comes from a respected family,
he is just

one individual. Maybe in a few generations his descendants can have real
authority, but

his name does not carry legacy the way ‘Yoon’ does, even if the family is in
decline. Jung may not be as smart as he thinks he is,

but he knows he’s never going to have the kind of social station that Seungho is
pissing

away, because Seungho’s station was built up by several generations of nobles
before

him. But, Jung does want to climb as high as possible within his station, and he
will

step on anyone to get where he thinks he belongs. Which means stepping on people
who were born

into even lower stations than he was. And everyone under him and Seungho… who do
they

get to step on? When it comes to individuals in Nakyum’s

own social class, there are servants and escorts. That’s about all he has access
to. In many cases, especially at first, they don’t

understand why this lowly painter of no renown has earned so much of Lord Yoon’s
attention.

Yes, they know his reputation — the servants live around him. And it’s to be
expected

that Seungho’s sexual appetite demands fresh meat from time to time. But
especially as Seungho begins to feed,

dress, and afford luxuries to Nakyum befitting a noble, there was, at first, a
question of

why a poor boy was lifted up by a local lord for no discernible reason? And
then, for some, if not many, that question

shifted to: “How dare he?” Indeed, as voiced by one character, Doek-Je,

there is rising descent among the staff who, upon the orders of Seungho, are
forced to

wait on Nakyum. It seems that not everyone is happy about having to serve
someone who

is within their same social bracket. Nakyum is not a lord, nor an esteemed
guest, nor

was he born into any station of respect. To them, Nakyum is just like them… or
at least

he OUGHT to be. Doek-Je recalls how he was recently beaten

by Seungho because he believed that Nakyum was trying to escape. And so… because
Seungho was so angry that

a boy he’s been tormenting was found trying to escape, he takes it out on the
staff. He

literally beats his entire staff because of something that Nakyum was blamed for
doing

. Due to one of these routine staff beatings,

Doek-Je claims that he actually lost some of his vision. And rather than blame
the guy

who beat the crap out of him, he blames Nakyum. Which is indicative of how the
rich will pit

the poor against the poor, in spite of being the reason for poverty in the first
place. We’ve seen, as the audience, that this hasn’t

particularly been a picnic for Nakyum. And we’ve seen that all of his privileges
come

with a very steep cost. And yet, almost every outsider looking in on the twisted
relationship

between Nakyum and Seungho places the blame on Nakyum. Ranging from Nakyum’s
quote-unquote ‘choice’

to remain with Seungho, and sometimes even venturing as far to say that Nakyum
is explicitly

seducing Seungho to win over his favour. It’s a common element of bitter,
short-sighted

people to look at the various benefits that are afforded to others. Take for
instance…

a jobs program to make sure inbound refugees have paying work. To some people,
that may appear as if they

are being granted privileges that set them far above those who were naturally
born into

the country. They see this and think: “My government is doing nothing to help
ME. And

yet they help THOSE PEOPLE.” For which they will then resent these landed
refugees. And there begins a contemptuous exchange between

these two groups. One group leaning towards nationalism, and the other, pushed
into alienation.

All the while, completely ignoring the fact that the controlling powers have
every opportunity

to establish a jobs program for everyone. Or even a Universal Basic Income, in
countries

that are wealthy enough. However, this is not the only way our culture

is encouraged to resent and envy individuals who are perceived to bite off more
than their

fair share. As much as we like to believe that social mobility is a staple of
our culture,

we really don’t have anything but contempt for people who prove that rags to
riches is

possible. Look at tabloid magazines. They have a very

clear idea of women that are ‘good’ and women that are ‘bad.’ During her heyday,

Jennifer Lopez was made a staunch example of excess, overspending, and lavish
lifestyle.

And while the measure of her character is not the debate here, she did grow up
in the

projects. Her success may have been one in a million,

but it was still something that she achieved regardless. But — there was a huge
audience

of people who wanted nothing more than to know how awful she was for spending
her money

the way she did. Jenny from the block, and others like her,

are useful as symbols to project that class mobility is possible. However, as
soon as

they transition into the perceived upper echelons of society, they become
symbols not of hope,

but envy. Meanwhile, there is little wealth-shaming

projected at people who are already wealthy before they were famous. Nobody bats
an eye

about whatever the Kardashians are overspending on.  The clearest example I can
POSSIBLY think

of is the media demonization of Meghan Markle. This woman has been dragged
through the coals

up and down for years. Tabloids attack a black woman for marrying

into wealth — a level of wealth that also includes titles and ceremony. They run
photographs

of her which can, with the addition of a sinister headline, make her look sneaky
or manipulative. Meanwhile, this same tabloid will run wholesome

family pictures of Prince William and Kate with their children. Somehow in a
video about illustrated Korean

gay porn we ended up talking about the House of Windsor. Do you SEE? THIS IS THE
KIND OF

INFLUENCE THEY HA— It seems to me that staff beatings at the

Yoon estate are a regular occurrence. At least, nobody seems surprised that it’s
happening.

When in reality, there’s nothing stopping the staff from collectively dropping a
rock

on Yoon Seungho’s head while he’s asleep. Unions. They work. (Damnit. That’s a
good slogan…) However, aside from Doek-Je, other servants

seem to have different opinions on Nakyum. And this is interesting because there
is a

very clear division in these responses. Men. Almost universally approach
Naykum’s circumstances

with a kind of envy or even jealousy. Whether it’s good food, a warm room, or
fine clothes,

or whether it’s Seungho’s favor.  Nakyum is receiving treatment they want — he

does not appear to be working as hard as they are. Ergo, he must be... cheating?
Somehow... It’s… not really a thought process that

comes from an ability to reason. However. What few women characters exist in the
plot

seem to empathize much more with Nakyum. The female servants around the Yoon
estate seem

to take a liking to him. And for various reasons, actively deter him from
participating in chores,

though he seems to offer. Is this a demand from Seungho? Does Nakyum get in the
way?

Or do they understand the circumstances of Nakyums… indenturement…? It would
make sense that the characters who

empathize with Nakyum are women. In an overwhelming array of societies around
the world, women

have very little in the way of social mobility. If anyone would understand the
harrowing effect

of having privileges at the expense of personal agency, it would probably be
women. Especially

in this time period. It’s also possible that the author is projecting

herself onto these women in the story, reflecting her own attitudes about
Nakyum’s circumstances.  Which leads me into the big question about

this story… are all these character interactions deliberately crafted to signify
larger, cultural

themes about class, privilege, wealth, heraldry, and social status? Or is it
just horny content focused on presenting

the taboo of queer romance where women are meant to project themselves onto the
effeminate

man, and all other elements are present to drive as many plot complications as
possible

in order to strum up drama? With Killing Stalking, when I asked this question,

it was tokenism. I’m fairly confident in that case, it was a very explicitly
crafted

story with clear, projected themes in mind. But honestly… with Painter of the
Night?

There’s a lot of evidence pointing one way or the other. But really, whether
it’s subliminal anti-classist

propaganda that uses bad-taste porn to radicalize an army of fujoshis, or
whether it’s just

bad-taste porn, I don’t think that really makes a difference. On one hand, it’s
an author inserting class

discourse into low-brow media. Or — these discussions around class and wealth
have permeated

society enough that it’s even finding its way into low-brow media, naturally.
Either

way it’s kind of a win, right? This… is where it gets a little muddy, though.

Because while what I have discussed certainly depicts Painter of the Night as a
sleeper

socialist recruitment manual of sorts… I haven’t really talked about the optics
of

framing techniques in the narrative. Optics. The ‘woke white person’s’ favourite

word. Really though, boiling it down, you’ve got

a story called ‘Painter of the Night.’ And yet, Nakyum, the titular character,
has

remarkably little character, no motivations other than self preservation, no
indication

of what his life would be if he wasn’t trapped in this situation, he doesn’t
express any

desires, nor any drive to really participate in the plot, nor resist it. The
story goes

to a much greater length to describe how Nakyum is feminine than what kind of
personality

he has. Meanwhile, with Nakyum as a proxy, the reader

is presented to Seungho, who has much more personality, if an inconsistent one.
We have

a much clearer idea of Seungho’s motivations. We see Seungho’s character
progression.

He holds the active role both in the plot and character dynamics with basically
everyone.

And at any available opportunity, Seungho steps in the room and derails whatever
conversation

is going on. It seems very clear to me that Nakyum is a

cypher for the audience, namely women, as per Nakyum’s ability to expose Seungho
to

said audience. As the story is ongoing, I’m not really able to say how this
resolves - if

Seungho continues to be a bit of a psychopath or if he changes — which would
help to moralize

his character and problematic elements. Though regardless of whether this is a
misapplied

cautionary tale, or a wish-fulfilment nobility-fetish, I think the writing is on
the wall about one

thing. Rich man. Literally a rapist. Gaslighting,

abusive, classist. I totally get having taboo fantasies. And

far be it from me to tell someone that they aren’t allowed to draw or write this
fantasy

because it’s politically incorrect. That said… there are other ways to depict

a naughty rich-poor gay sex affair. Take, for instance, the alternate universe

spin-off series of Painter of the Night, where Seungho and Nakyum’s social roles
are reversed.

As the son of a wealthy family, Nakyum tires to ply his craft as an erotic
painter under

a psudeunam, and Seungho is the village pervert getting thrown out of houses by
angry fathers.

And here… the little differences make it clear that the author is going for
something

a bit more complex than just the porn that this could be easily read as. First
of all, as a rich son, Nakyum is a little

bit embarrassed by his dirty art, but he does not have such a shame complex
about it. However...

Seungho, by contrast to his main-universe variant, never seems to violate
consent. In either case, the author knows how an elevated

station affects either character. From a position of privilege, Seungho has a
much greater entitlement

to… what he wants out of people in general. Power and privilege in this case,
just takes

elements of his character and twists it into something vile. Nakyum is more or
less the same person though.

Power doesn’t corrupt. Power doesn’t always corrupt. It reveals. Someone doesn't
become

evil just by gaining power. Power just allows them to do what they always wanted
to do.  But this does take place in an alternate universe

timeline. So… If only there was some OTHER well-known, nuanced

Korean media which deliberately depicts class conflicts from which we could
cross-reference

themes, depictions, and attitudes about wealth and social standing… Parasite.
Holy sh*t. I can tell you, I went

into this film with high expectations leading up to the 2019 Oscars and it
somehow exceeded

all of them. Parasite is the story of a very poor Family

— the Kims and their children, Ki-Woo and Ki-Jung. Times are hard. From getting
swindled

on odd jobs they do, to being a 4-person family living in a literal basement
stealing wifi

from their upstairs neighbours on cellphones. Their son manages to find work
teaching English

to the daughter of a rich family, the Parks. And the Parks are like… indicated
to be

MEGA rich. Like. Korean ELITE. So much so that, as the Kims progressively

hash out plots to replace the Parks’ current staff with themselves, their
daughter makes

the process that much easier by creating a fake hiring service that requires you
to list

your annual income before you can even be considered. You know, to keep out the
only

so-so riches away. And none of the Parks bat an eyelash at that. The scary thing
is that these elite services

actually do exist. You know, there’s a ‘facebook for rich people’ which, is a
paid service,

but REQUIRES a $20,000 up-front payment to gain entry to. If I had $20,000 you
can bet your ass I’d

have better things to spend it on that a social media platform.

And up to this point… yes. Parasite is a tongue-and-cheek showcase of the ways
the

wealthy exist in a bubble of complete obliviousness. But when the Parks go out
for a camping trip

one weekend, the Kims decide they’re going to live in luxury for a few days.
Before this,

the Kims were depicted very positively. Yes, they caused mischief to get a
little bit ahead,

but you SAW where they came from, with some comedically heavy-handed metaphors
to boot.

You still kinda rooted for them. Especially compared to the Parks.  The Kims
were in a relatively loving, affectionate

marriage. Mr. Park, however, refused to even say that he loved his wife. The Kim
children are shown to have a wide

array of talents and skills. The Park children… The Kims work to find creative
ways to solve

problems and do what they need to to survive. The Parks take literally
everything for granted

and completely believe that they work harder than others to maintain their
status. Though, even while the Kims treat themselves

to a weekend alone in the Parks’ modern manor, in a very short time, they
develop

a number of the Parks’ tendencies.  Mr. and Mrs. Kim threaten each other with

violence, though play it off as a joke. They take their newfound success for
granted. And

they use the weekend to eat lots and drink expensive liquor without any regard
to how

anything could go wrong. At which point the former maid, Moon-Gwang

shows up begging to be let in. She immediately goes to a secret basement hidden
behind a

shelf in the pantry. As she was a maid who worked in the house from when it was
originally

built, she has been keeping her husband there — the whole time in the basement —
to

keep him away from loan sharks. Moon-Gwang literally begs on her knees for

Mrs. Kim, who succeeded her as the live-in housekeeper under a pseudonym, to not
tell

anyone he is there, and to let her show up, now and then, to care for her
husband. She

even offers a bribe.  At which point, Ms. Kim not only denies her,

but insults her, threatens to call the police — regardless of the fact that Ms.
Kim and

her family, not long ago, were living in similar sort of desperation. Folding
pizza boxes and

only getting paid for a fraction of the work. Ms. Kim had been portrayed as a
bit of a b*tch

before then… but she was a likable figure. She was never this cold before. The
other three Kims were eavesdropping at

the time, and accidentally slip and reveal themselves. Moon-Gwang and her
husband record

the event on a phone, and threaten to reveal the whole plot to the Parks. And
then the two families find themselves

upstairs. Moon-Gwang and her husband enjoy the merriment the Kims had afforded
themselves,

while the Kims cower against the wall like hostages. Moon-Gwang and her husband
rave

and recall the glory days of living in the open together, while exchanging
compliments

about how powerful they are, waving around the phone they can blackmail the Kims
with. A finger hovering over the ‘SEND’ button

compared to a North Korean dictator hovering over the ‘LAUNCH’ button.
Moon-Gwang (before: so quiet, respectful,

and soft spoken) is now being compared to a dictator with a nuclear arsenal, and
she

is revelling in it. But the Kims take advantage of the distraction, and wrestle
the phone

from Moon-Gwang. In an extended full-family wrestling match. At which point it’s
curious that these poor

people weren’t even fighting to be successful. They were fighting other poor
people for who

will have the PRIVILEGE of licking the rich family’s boots. Just look at what
Moon-Gwang’s husband had

been doing underground for the prior decade. He had… for some reason, taken to
revering

Mr. Park so strongly that it approaches religious fanaticism. He concluded that
the man who

owned the house over the bomb shelter he had spent so long in must be a man of
great respect. Mr. Park arrives home every night at the exact

same time. Moon-Gwang’s husband is ready every night to activate the lights
leading

up to the living room, and screams his praises to a Lord who cannot hear his
reveries between

two meters of concrete.  Mr. Park does not know there is a man in the

basement who feels inclined to dedicate his every breath to him. And if he did
know, he

probably wouldn’t be a fan of the idea. The point is that the rich are
ambivalent

to the poor if they are not DIRECTLY serving or supporting them. And even then,
they’re

disposable. Like the driver. Like the housekeeper. And the lights over the
stairs leading to

the living room? The ones that Moon-Gwang’s husband ritualistically activates?
The Parks

don’t think too much about it. Lights mysteriously turning on? It’s a rich
people house. Don’t

worry about it. It’s a rich people house thing. It’s a sensor.  Later, when
Moon-Gwang’s husband, his wife

now bleeding out after being pushed down the stairs by Mrs. Kim, bashes his
bloody head

against the switch to tap out messages in morse code… it’s just the sensor
acting

up. Pay it no mind. The literal life or death situations that

poor people are trying to communicate are dismissed as a malfunction. A glitch
in the

system. Obscure messages needing to be decoded are just white noise. A byproduct
of civilization. Ms. Kim accidentally-on-purpose murdered Moon-Gwang…

over who gets to have the ability to serve a made-up luxury beef ramen bowl to
the Parks.

Complaining about how awful the rain is while a woman is dying under their feet.
It’s worse than active hatred. It’s complete

ambivalence. Ms. Park praising the rain for clearing out

smog after the Kims have to take refuge from a flood. Mr. Park threatening to
fire Mr. Kim if he

doesn’t don a ridiculous outfit to stage a ridiculous skit for a birthday party.
And then Mr. Park’s complete disgust at

the sight of the Kim daughter’s blood. Refusing to call for an ambulance,
instead demanding

Mr. Kim to give him his car keys so he can get away from the awful sight.
Sheepishly

taking them for himself when Mr. Kim would not abandon his dying daughter. The
final result is Ms. Kim and her son Ki-Woo

facing criminal charges, after the son endured severe head trauma. Tried,
prosecuted, his

sister dead, and his father on the run. He has a brain injury where he laughs
chronically. Why wouldn’t he? Smile. Things COULD be

worse. And Mr. Kim? He’s wanted for the murder

of Mr. Park. But it turns out that he’s been hiding in the secret bomb shelter.
Living

as Moon-Gwang’s husband once did. Flicking on the lights for the new homeowners
and sobbing

in grief to a magazine cutout of Mr. Park, who he regrets murdering, and misses
dearly.

Reveres… even.  There is no change. No resolution. A couple

faces were swapped. Nothing gained; nothing lost. BUT! There is hope…  Nick:
“For a better future?” PFFT. No. There’s hope that someday Ki-Woo will be

able to go back to school, be successful himself and one day buy that house so
his father can

live in the light once more. But that’s just a dream. It’s just a hope. He has
hope

that he will succeed in the system, so why does anything need to change? There…
aren’t any heroes in this story.

This isn’t a story of how this one rich family was terrible. This was a story
about

a social structure which permits this family to be this rich while these poor
families

could be this poor. And how, at the end of it, the system only recognizes the
rich people

as victims. The same set of laws which allowed the Parks

to be as wealthy as they were, were the set of laws which punished the Kims for
doing

what they had to do the scrape by. Did the Kims get a bit too ambitious by
replacing

the whole household staff? Did they bite off too much? Did they get too greedy?
Maybe. But if petty drama to fire a few people is

greed… what does that make the Parks? Who have indicatively more than enough
expendable

income to support all six poor people. Pay off their loans, pay for their wifi.
Send

the Kim kids to school — it’s clear that they have the talent for it, but not
the finances. In a system where you can be as talented,

motivated, and driven to pull off all the sh*t Kims managed to pull off — why do
we

punish them for not having any options for how to use their talents? The film is
called parasite because everyone

is one. The Kims, yes, leach off of the Parks. But the Parks have been leaching
off of countless

families like the Kims. In class dynamics, parasites BEGET parasites. Which is
worse? The ones who feed for their

survival? Or ones who feed for excess? The film’s answer is intended to be
obvious. But, most unsettlingly, what does the film

suggest about the Kims’ son vowing to become successful enough to one day
purchase the

house his father is trapped in? Does his goal make his quest for success any
more noble

than why Mr. Park chose to be so wealthy?  We’ve seen how the Kims respond to
privileges,

even imaginary ones. Who is the junior Kim going to have to become to fulfill
his promise

to his father? By survival, the cycle continues. By success,

the cycle continues. Greed begets envy. Envy begets desperation. And that
desperation begets

criminal labels on people who cannot succeed within the established system. What
interests me is the fact that there are

so many parallel themes across Parasite and Painter of the Night. An Oscar
winning film,

and an online comic. A modern day parable, and a historic erotica. Furthermore,
that

a historic depiction of Feudal Korea contains the same structures of inescapable
inequality

as a modern depiction of South Korea under capitalism. Because it’s not as if
the circumstances

around wealth and privilege in Parasite AND Painter of the Night are just made
up. For

many people, the Kim’s lives ARE a reality. There are plenty of desperate people
willing

to do desperate things to survive, and even more desperate things to thrive. I
grew up

with those people. A lot of things I had as a kid “fell off the back of a
truck”. And Nakyum’s circumstances can be found

in a SHOCKING number of relationships. How many people stay with abusive
partners because

they feel like they have no other option? That someone else might treat them
worse.

The monster you don’t know is scarier than the monster you do know. And so it
comes down to power. In Parasite,

the Kims have no power. In Painter of the Night, Nakyum has no power. And so
they must

rely on people who do have power. And in our world, power and wealth are
synonymous.  The queer community has forever been in the

shoes of Nakyum and the Kims. No power. Begging the powerful to let us have some
scraps so

that we might survive. To make our relationships legitimate in the eyes of the
law. To make

killing us a hate crime. To make our very existence legal. And those in power,
mostly straight white

men, have the ability to make us do whatever they want in exchange for said
scraps. Because

of desperation. The desperation of the powerless leads to disturbing things. The
desperation of Nakyum to endure assault,

gaslighting, and rape in exchange for some amount of comfort. The desperation of
the

Kims to throw other people in their social standing under the bus so that they
can have

a vacation in a house that the owners of… take vacations from. The desperation
of people

all over the world, fleeing wars, climate disasters, murderous governments, and
fascism. I wanted to make this video because I read

an online comic with gay themes and thought I’d talk about it. Hell, with the
third

season coming up, YouTube’s algorithm might even be nice to this video. But the
more Nick and I dug into the subtext

of Painter of the Night, the more I realized that it’s not just a very well
drawn porn.

On the surface, yes, absolutely. Porn. But under the surface, and not even that
deep

down, there was a very intriguing commentary on class, society, and the
desperate actions

of the powerless. The ongoing war of rich VS poor. Of the powerful vs the
powerless.

Of the people who own things… and the people who own nothing. If you’re watching
this video you’re very

likely a part of that second group. We’re all fighting back against a system set
up

to keep us in a very specific place in society. With just enough hope to keep us
going, but

not nearly enough opportunity for all of us to succeed. For all of us to reach
the heights

of our potential. With the rich having their way, they’ll

have us attacking each other for scraps of opportunities. Hope has very limited
vacancies. There is always a system, a Park Family, a

Seungho, keeping us in our place. Making sure we don’t reach too far, don’t ask
for

too much. Not without their permission. Not without them controlling it, or at
least owning

a piece of it. Telling us that we should be grateful that they give us the
opportunity

to work for them, to create for them. The privileged get what they want. Whether

it’s tax breaks for hoarding wealth, a trip to space, or someone’s body. And,
unsettlingly, it’s incredibly cost-effective

for rich people to just change the rules so they can get exactly what they want.
If they

even feel the need. After all. If the punishment for a crime is just a fine,
then that’s

a crime the rich can get away with. And isn’t that what we’re made to think

the entire purpose of wealth is? Being afforded opportunities to get what you
want. No matter

what. The more you have, the more you can get away with. And it’s this pivotal
association that I

think is so toxic. Wealth should buy comfort — not power. And certainly not
survival. Our freedom — our agency is determined by

people who already have the freedom to do just about anything they want. As
individuals, we may not have a lot of power.

But our strength is in Our cooperation. Our numbers. The rich know how powerful
numbers

can be, and that’s why they do everything they can to divide us. To create as
many minority

categories as possible. To pit the middle class against the poor. The poor
against the

destitute. But if we could just, for a moment, show them

how powerful we can be together. There’s no telling the change we can bring.