---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/y-ly49qkpge"

date: 2022-11-01
title: The Outing of Kit Connor (Special Podcast Episode)
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup"
# description: "a podcast episode on <xyz>."
notes:
  - podcast
  - feb26-unprivate

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
<credits class="desc">

We need to talk about the horrible situation that "fans" put Kit Connor in. 

PATREON: [link]

#kitconnor #heartstopper #gay

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

hello everyone and welcome to episode 21 of the padreon my name is James and
this week um I think this episode may be another episode that goes out live on
to um my YouTube channel because this is something that I feel like needs to be
talked about instead of just my inane ramblings laughs so we're gonna have a
chat about uh kit Connor who most of you would know as Nick from heartstopper
and how he has been forced to out himself because of a lot of people saying that
he is queerbaiting by playing a bisexual character on a television show
heartstopper on Netflix um but not coming out as some flavor of queer and so
they've been saying they've and they've been saying this for months now he left
Twitter for a while because people were just attacking him over this kind of
demanding that he come out and so he left Twitter for a while and um yesterday
October 31st he put out a tweet saying back for a minute I'm bi congrats for
forcing an 18 year old to out himself I think some of you missed the point of
the show bye which is basically sums up my opinion of the whole situation that
an internet mob demanding a queer person to out themselves um forced someone an
18 year old who you know I'm I'm 33 I look at an 18 year old as a kid like I
know you know like 18 is the age of adult blah blah all that I don't care an 18
year old is a kid um you know they're still figuring stuff out I know people who
didn't figure out their kind of queer status until they were in their 20s or 30s
some even in their 40s or later and so I did a stream last night and that's when
I was informed of this live um so I was kind I was doing a stream playing a
video game playing Resident Evil and so I was kind of trying to have to figure
out okay how do I do this how do I how how do I play the video game and like sum
up my thoughts on this and so that's why I decided to do this podcast and for my
pray turns for my patrons I do apologize for putting this one live I know the
patreon or the patreon is supposed to be Patron exclusive um but I do think that
this is a topic that ought to be discussed uh like I said [Music] um and even
I'm just kind of looking around at different articles talking about it variety
for instance says heartstopper Creator and fans rally around star kit Connor
after he's forced to come out as bisexual and they have forced in quotation
marks as if he is you know kind of drumming up drama around this that oh he
wasn't forced to come out it's like no there has been so much pressure from a
certain section of the internet a very loud section of the internet for Kit
Connor to come out as queer in some way that I can imagine for an 18 year old
who is just getting his start in the Indus in the film industry who's just
getting his start really as an actor he's been an actor before like he was in
rocket man he played young Elton John um and he obviously he's done other
projects as well but you know Heart Stopper is his first you know big hit it's
made him famous and just as he's hitting this stride at such a young age of 18
there Comes This wave of negativity basically saying you are illegitimate your
character is illegitimate you are not worth the time of the queer Community if
you don't come out and so I just want to talk about first of all I want to talk
about coming out in the film industry um because that's kind of I know a lot of
people in the film industry I know a lot of gay people in the film industry and
I know a lot of uh people in the film industry who know a lot of gay people in
the film industry who are not out a lot of actors who are not out of the closet
um publicly they are to friends and family their agents you know their managers
know producers know but an industry exists to make sure that the vast majority
of people do not know because they are the type of actors who could be
classified as Leading Men um you know like the Leonardo DiCaprio's of the world
not not Leonardo DiCaprio isn't one of them but you know people who could be on
his level there are actors who could be on his level and there is who are gay um
who basically everyone in the industry knows they just keep quiet about it
because they know there would be a huge backlash and their career may very well
be torpedoed as it's just kind of getting off to a good start if they were to be
outed because that is unfortunately still how Hollywood works now I know we know
lots and lots of gay actors um let me just bring up uh a list of them here just
so that I'm not uh hemming and highing like I already am but you know you've got
actors like Zachary Quinto and Neil Patrick Harris and Jim Parsons and Jane
Lynch and Raven Simone and Guillermo Diaz and Ian McKellen of course and Sarah
Paulson and Matt Bomer and Cynthia Nixon and Kristen Stewart and uh well
obviously Elton John Sarah Gilbert um Cheyenne Jackson Colton Haynes who
recently released an autobiography talking about his coming out process um uh
Ben winshaw uh Wanda Sykes Wentworth Miller Rosie O'Donnell Ricky Martin Lily
Tomlin Sam Smith Jesse Tyler Ferguson so you know we know lots of queer actors
and performers and celebrities we know lots of queer celebrities and so I think
we have gotten used to the idea of oh well it's all better in Hollywood now that
you know maybe 20 years ago if you came out your career would be torpedoed but
not now not now it's everything's everything's better now because you know
Hollywood is so gay um and you know there are the the sort of behind the scenes
of Hollywood the um the people who really make the town run are I don't want to
say majority but a pretty sizable chunk of them are a part of the queer
Community um but the people who make the decisions the people who make the final
decisions I'm talking The Producers the executives they are not gay for the most
part some of them are like Ryan Murphy but for the most and he goes out of his
way like he's said some dumb stuff in the last week regarding the Dahmer series
but he has gone far out of his way to give queer performers all across the
Spectrum an opportunity to get um viewed by a much larger Audience by being on
hit shows like American Horror Story and American Crime Story and as well as
giving them work in general because work for queer performers is kinda hard to
come by especially like the cast of Poe's um having transgender actresses and
non-binary actresses and non-binary actors uh getting them work on a highly
regarded show is something that it does take a Ryan Murphy type figure to do
even though Ryan Murphy didn't really run Poe's uh pose was mostly run by
actually uh creators of color um and trans creators of color as well which is
really great that you know executive producers were hired that actually were a
part of the community but other than Ryan Murphy there aren't a lot of queer
producers or Executives out there to give queer actors a chance to shine it is
mostly old white men grumpy old white men like the um the CEO of Disney the CEO
of Warner Brothers these kind of guys that you look at them and you're like oh
you can just see just by looking at them like you're like oh you hate us um and
you know whether they hate us or not they're certainly not going out of their
way to support us and so that is really who runs the film industry like from the
top because the people who make the film industry you know work as you know a
well-oiled machine they are um they are gay people and lesbians and trans people
and non-binary people they are the people who make Productions work but the
people who make Productions funded are the straight old white men and those
straight old white men still have a very strict idea of what classifies as
marketable to a mainstream audience and they do not think to this day they do
not think that gay actors are marketable to a mainstream audience there have
been multiple actors just over the last couple of years who you can find with a
relatively ego easy Google search I'm not going to talk about their name I'm not
going to mention their names because that would be outing them I've talked about
it on streams and stuff like that but I'm not going to talk about it on a video
that's you know up forever um but there are pretty major actors um who have been
you know coming up in the industry in the last couple of years who have almost
had their careers destroyed because they came out on Instagram or they had a
couple of many Paparazzi too many Paparazzi pictures taken of them at the beach
with their boyfriend um and people who came out over a decade ago who quickly
went back into the closet and have been very deep within the closet since then
to the point where they're being set up with actresses and things like that to
kind of keep hush um so that nobody questions their sexuality and this is how
Hollywood still to this day works this is what was happening in the 19 like 40s
and 50s with Rock Hudson where actors like Rod Rock Hudson and actors like
Anthony Perkins would be given girlfriends and by producers and Executives and
said okay now you're gonna go to dinner with her and you're going to be seen and
we're going to make sure that the Press is there and that was done and it's
still done to this day that is still done because these old white men producers
thoroughly believe that if an actor is gay the majority of America and again
this is Hollywood so this is very america-centric um that the majority of
America would basically disown them and whether they're right or not we don't
really know because we've never had a really good case study of it in a general
sense with Neil Patrick Harris he kind of went away for a very long time and
then came back and came out but he was a part of a hit TV show that was where he
was playing a very straight character and did a good job a good really good job
doing it and so it was easy for audiences to kind of disassociate his uh
homosexuality because he was so good at playing this womanizing straight
character and since then he hasn't been in any huge projects if you notice he
was in Gone Girl but in a very minor supporting character uh he was in the new
series on Netflix uh the title of it is escaping me but he it was um a quote
unquote quote unquote older gay man so Neil Patrick Harris's age which as far as
I'm concerned that's not an older gay man um but uh he and his long his
long-term partner dumps him and he's kind of forced out into the dating game
again and it was not a success and the timing of this in particular is
incredibly bad because the question of okay are gay actors marketable was put to
a test with Bros and say what you will about Bros it was two gay actors in the
lead roles of this movie the quality of notwithstanding the problems with um uh
the main actor I can't believe I'm forgetting his name I'm I'm I just sat down
to do this right after a stream so I'm kind of flighty I apologize um but the
the main actor had some problems and stuff but like forget about all that
Hollywood doesn't care about that uh Hollywood doesn't give a damn about the
technicalities surrounding the failure of a movie Billy Eichner sorry I had to
Google it because it was driving me crazy uh Billy Eichner and Luke McFarland
were the lead characters lead actors in that movie both of them are out gay men
and have been out and gay for quite a while um and the movie bombed at like
almost like drastic levels uh with a 22 million dollar budget and a an estimated
marketing budget of 30 million dollars which there's been no confirmation that's
just kind of what's leaked out of you know different Hollywood sources that
would mean that the movie would need to make a hundred million dollars to break
even because basically uh I've talked about this in videos before basically for
a movie to break even it has to make twice as much at the box office as it cost
to make and Market because movie theaters keep roughly 50 of the money that is
made so 50 million dollars and it's made 13 million so huge bomb huge bomb
because it needed to make about 100 million to break even um so that is the most
recent gay thing that Hollywood will look at and they look at that and they say
oh nope gay actors are not marketable and they don't look at this the the the
sort of the surrounding Confluence of events they did they don't Executives
don't care about that they don't care about people's opinions on why something
failed they just look at it as black and white failure success did it break even
was a profit gained from this project no it's a failure there is no caveats
there it's a failure that's the way Executives work Executives don't think about
social causes Executives think about dollar signs that's what their job is
that's what they're paid to do um and so like I said again sorry for repeating
myself Bros is the most recent thing in Hollywood's memory as far as gay actors
go and now or as queer actors go and now with kit Harrington not kid Harrington
oh my god um kit Connor kit Harrington is not gay uh with kick on her um being
forced to come out as bisexual and he was forced to come out as bisexual because
there was so much pressure put on this kid for him to come out because from from
some fans of Heart Stopper who said that you know I'm gonna stop watching the
show if he's straight other fans um other people who may not even be fans saying
that he's queerbaiting the Audience by not coming out as bisexual that he's
pulling a hairy styles by not saying it one way or another and while seeing all
of this I'm like guys he's 18 years old give him a break give him some time um
it's you know just infuriating and and this is from someone who used to be very
like okay listen if you're gay and you're in media you need to come out because
we need more um we we need more uh exposure but he's 18. like this isn't like if
uh who's a who's an actor that's like really bulletproof um Chris Evans it's not
like if Chris Evans came out and said I'm gay a lot of people would be like oh
but plenty of people would still go to see Chris Evans movies I don't think it
would hit Chris Evans very hard if he came out as gay because he has an
established fan base he has as an established career he has established
relationships you know he's Captain America um or at least he was Captain
America um so it wouldn't really affect him that much if someone like uh well
Leonardo DiCaprio if Leonardo DiCaprio came out as bisexual it would not affect
him at all if anything it might increase his fan base um but you know kit Connor
is just getting started in his career and with Bros just show having shown
Hollywood that gay actors are box office poison or queer actors or our box
office poison and you now have Kit Connor being forced to come out that puts a
big asterisk above his career because now there is a question hovering over him
kid Connor has been in talks for big roles um he didn't come to Hollywood for
most for a big chunk of 2022 to see the sights he came to Hollywood to talk to
Casting agents and talk to Casting executives because Heart Stopper came out it
was huge there was an immediate thirst for him among lots of teenage girls and
teenage boys and a lot of much older people um a little problematic but anyway
that he gained a huge fan base and a huge following on social media just people
sharing every single picture taken of him anywhere whether it was a Paparazzi
picture it was a selfie it was a picture taken with fans it would just be shared
everywhere kit Connor was trended on Twitter so often it was like every single
day I saw him trending on Twitter um and so like he had this golden opportunity
handed to him because of what came out of Heart Stopper that none of the other
actors on the show have really gotten the and you ask yourself well why not are
they not as good no it's because the other especially the other queer actors on
the show they're out they were out when the show came out and so for most
Hollywood Executives and casting agents they were immediately written off they
weren't flown into Hollywood to read for roles at DC or Marvel or Universal
projects or things for um you know I don't know the rings of power or something
I don't know um uh or House of the Dragon whatever they weren't brought in to
read for these giant projects uh I don't know for sure what kit Connor was
brought in to read for and by read for I mean audition um and to speak to
Casting agents and get to know people but he was brought in and he had this
amazing opportunity and I think that's why he left Twitter because it was like
you know I have this amazing opportunity as a very young actor to be able to
really you know gain a foothold in this incr in this industry that is near
impossible to gain a foothold in and people were you know poking and prodding
and saying you need to come out you need to come out you need to come out and so
he left Twitter for a while because he's like I I'm not going to do that I I
can't right now and I understand that I completely understand that because like
I said there is still a huge stigma for queer actors in Hollywood um and you
know there are plenty of queer actors getting roles on Netflix and and shows in
the UK and on TV in general but not in movies he was reading for big roles in
movies and now that Heart Stopper is shooting season two even though he hasn't
been on Twitter he is basically on Twitter because people are sharing uh they've
been in Paris filming on on location and so people have been sharing pictures
and then the comments under these pictures just become a deluge of he's
queerbaiting he's queerbaiting he's queerbaiting he's queerbaiting and so he
comes back and says you know back for a minute I'm bi congrats for forcing an 18
year old out himself I think some of you missed the point of the show bye and
because there's just so much pressure because there's the potential that a lot
of people would say I don't like him because I think he's queerbaiting and he
should come out so I'm not going to watch season two and then season two fails
and then that Torpedoes the careers of everyone else on that show then it's a
one-hit season wonder One season Wonder and then it's not just kick Connor's
career who's in danger it's everyone's career if these asshats decided to you
know not watch the show anymore because they were angry at kit Connor for not
coming out and so I think he was thinking of his friends and his co-workers and
his castmates and he was like I don't want their careers to be torpedoed by this
toxic group of people so I'm going to you know take the arrow to the knee and
you know go on there and come out and you can tell just by the Tweet he's not
happy about this because this isn't someone who has come to terms with their
sexuality they've you know talked to their friends and family they're
comfortable about it and they're ready this isn't someone who is ready to come
out publicly this is someone who is being pushed out of the closet and that's
not something that we should do ever like I think there are some exceptions that
can be made for say republican politicians that we know are gay that we have
proof that are gay and they are voting for anti-gay bills for anti-trans bills
stuff like that I'm not going to say don't out them because then from their
voter base they're not going to get reelected so you know that's one less person
who is actively hurting the Community kit Connor was not hurting the community
none of the actors who I know are gay are hurting the community by not being out
in fact most of them raise money for the community for Charities like um trans
lifeline and things like that and the Trevor Project and even though they're not
out they do a lot to raise money for causes in the community and you know so
they're doing their part because they can't come out just because of the
industry they're in and it's a toxic industry ask any woman who was ever in a
room with Harvey Weinstein they will tell you just how toxic this industry can
be um and so there's been a huge reaction online to this as you can imagine a
lot of people gloating kind of saying like yeah we got him to come out yay he's
out yay and it's like okay yay he's bisexual what do you think he's gonna date
you like do you think you you're get you're getting something out of this other
than the the joy of outing an 18 year old that you don't know um Alice oseman
the creator of Heart Stopper um uh put out a statement saying I truly don't
understand how people can watch Heart Stopper and then gleefully spend their
time speculating about sexualities and judging based on stereotypes I hope all
those people are embarrassed as F kit you are amazing uh and then went on to say
if Heart Stopper helps a young queer person in their coming out journey or if it
helps a parent understand their child a little bit better it is the most lovely
and heartwarming thing you could hear and makes it feel like it's all worth it
um actually I think she may have said that earlier um kit Connor also said to
have a show where you see queer people being happy and being together and United
as a group I think there's something really beautiful about that I think that
shows like euphoria that are very queer and still very much sort of adult in
many ways because they are very dark and gritty I think it's really important to
have a show that is just portraying queer love and queer Beauty and I believe
yeah pretty sure he said this before this happened um like on the original press
tour um because that's one of the nice things that people have loved about
heartstopper is that it's not that it is something that you know you can feel as
a queer teenager or pre even preteen you can feel comfortable watching Heart
Stopper with your parents if you know your parents are accepting um you can feel
comfortable watching it with them because you know there's not going to be you
know a random dick popping up somewhere it's usually not dicks but you know a
random sex scene um that's just like gratuitous um or you know other like heavy
drug use and stuff like that like it's something you can watch with your family
it's something that your grandparents can watch and be like oh oh it's just they
just fall in love like that and it it like I've seen so many stories on Twitter
and Instagram and Tumblr about people getting their grandparents to watch Heart
Stopper and suddenly their grandparents aren't so homophobic anymore you know
maybe it doesn't convert them to being 100 on our side but you know it opens the
conversation and so and there's lots of people who don't like Heart Stopper and
that's perfectly fine it's not for everyone it is very sweet it's like it's like
the sweetest candy it is not for everybody um I've only been able to watch it
once all the way through because it is so sweet um that it's almost painful for
my uh frustrated 33 year old haven't had a boyfriend in 10 years heart to be
able to watch it but um you know it just it gives it it's this happy place and
now this happy place is being infused with this again toxicity from people who
aren't seeing the message they're not looking at kit Connor's character and
seeing his slow Evolution well that's slow because it's not that long a season
but his Evolution across the season coming to terms with his bisexuality um you
know coming to terms with the fact that he likes boys is he gay is he bisexual
figuring out okay he's bisexual and then coming and then on his own terms in his
own time coming out to people and coming out to his mom and stuff like that that
they watch that and they see this bisexual character be able to do that in their
own time and then they look at the per literal the literal person playing that
character and they say but you don't get to have that you don't get to have that
you need to do it on my time you need to do it when I say you need to do it uh
yesterday because you shouldn't have been cast in this role if you aren't queer
and you know it's and then that brings up the the the big argument about should
you know should we really really be focusing on casting queer actors in queer
roles um because then it kind of raises the question okay well how many queer
actors are not going to get queer roles because they're not out uh because
they're you know in an industry that for the most part won't allow them to be
out um and that is a problem and it's something worth discussing I don't have
the answer for that um I've I've never even been forced to kind of reckon with
my gayness because I came out I figured out I was gay when I was like I figured
out what gay was and that that's what I was at about 11 and I came out at 12.
and it wasn't like I came out to myself I came out to my friends my family my
grandparents just everybody I had I didn't have the patience to wait um because
I expected there to be this you know amazing gay community to pop up to support
this 12 year old that didn't happen um and which is probably for the better when
you really think about it um but so I I've never had to kind of worry about it
and Eve but even when I've when I was working in marketing and things like that
when I would start at a firm I I wouldn't mention that I was gay I I wouldn't
because you don't know the opinion of the people who really decide whether or
not you get to make a living and you know in Canada where I am it is illegal to
fire someone for being gay but there's always a way they can come up with a
different reason you know they don't have to say oh I fired him because he's gay
it can be well he showed up late a lot and it's like well how where's the proof
of that there doesn't really need to be proof no no one's going to demand proof
of that um which is why I'm so thankful for you know being able to make YouTube
videos because as frustrating as YouTube is and can be with queer creators um it
is a place that I can be myself and I don't have to hide myself to be able to um
you know make a living and that is a great um weight off of my shoulders that
most actors in Hollywood specifically it's different everywhere I know it's a
lot easier to be out in England uh the England the English acting scene for
instance um but when you're trying to work in Hollywood it's very hard to just
come out because no matter how big your fan base is no matter what kind of
franchise you're in you never know which old white male executive is gonna look
at you and say well I don't think you can make us money anymore so I'm not even
gonna try and so now this 18 year old kid who is incredibly talented the boy can
sing and the boy can act and is incredibly talented and is on this show that is
making people incredibly happy has now been backed into this corner where he may
have just if not I think I think he has a fan base that is AVID enough that it
won't torpedo his career a Heart Stopper has been such a hit for Netflix if
nothing else Netflix will put him in stuff but you know will possibly have hurt
his career just because he has had to acquiesce to these online [ __ ] demanding
an 18 year old divulge you know what for a lot of people is very personal
information um you know even if he was in a different industry like if he if he
wasn't an actor if he wasn't a singer or anything like that if he was just
working in I don't know insurance it's not fair to force anyone out of the
closet when they are not if they are not being you know uh a force for bad for
the community like I said gay Republicans and stuff um who are in the closet and
voting against gay rights and trans rights and just being horrible um most
people most gay people are not elected officials voting against their own rights
most are not and so like you know I'm focused on Hollywood because that is the
situation at hand a very talented young actor may have just had his career ended
and that might be being dramatic because like I said Netflix is going to keep
him around because he is very popular um and Netflix has had you know Netflix
has had its problems with queer rep with queer stuff but they they have produced
a lot of queer content um but he may have just really hurt what could have been
movie stardom like you know getting into the Marvel movies maybe playing
hulkling or something like that in the Young Avengers or you know getting into
you know just Blockbusters or big Hollywood movies and Oscar movies something
whatever um that may have put the brakes on that for him because of these [ __ ]
who feel like he owes them something because he's a public figure they know who
he is they want to know if he's gay because he's gay or bi or queer because he's
playing a queer character he's playing a bisexual character so they want to know
they want to know if he deserves their respect they want to know if he deserves
their admiration because how dare he expect them to not disqualify him for doing
an amazing job playing a character that helped a lot of people that alone is not
enough for them he has to justify that by telling them I am what you need me to
be what you specifically need me to be and the Really heartbreaking part about
it is that they're a minority a very loud toxic minority and you know kit Connor
is not the first person that they have come for um they have come for plenty of
people in the past and he's just the most recent and I think probably the most
high profile because her Heart Stopper has been so popular and it's just really
sad seeing this it's sad because I I don't know if it's if it's coming from the
gay community and you know if it's coming from the queer community and we're
demanding this of him if it's coming from straight viewers who feel like they're
doing the right thing by you know uh forcing him out of the closet because you
know he should stand up with the gay community and all this kind of stuff I
don't know if it's you know fan girls who want to know whether or not they'll
ever get to be with him or if it's Fanboys who ever want to know if they'll be
with him um I can answer that for all of them in all of you if any of you are
listening no you're never going to be with him um whether he's you know he's
bisexual but whether he was gay straight bisexual uh pansexual asexual aromantic
whatever you are never going to you know be his boyfriend or be his girlfriend
so I don't know why you felt you had so much personal stake in this to force
this 18 year old kid out of the closet at a very precarious time in his life a
maker literally a make or break time for his career and I'm just hoping that his
fan base rallies around him and from what I'm seeing on Twitter they are um um
he's got just on that tweet he's got 23 right as of right now he's got 23 000
replies the vast mode I haven't obviously I haven't gone through all of them but
of the vast majority that I've read have been very positive uh supporting him
and apologizing for the faceless masses that demanded he come out uh and 405 000
likes so he's got his fan base he's got his fans he's he's also got you know
Alice oseman behind him who's becoming you know a kind of a stir creator with
Netflix now um with Heart Stopper being so popular and they want to work with
her on other projects um I want to work with them with other projects I
apologize um and you know he has had talks with um pretty big pretty big studios
in Hollywood pretty big production companies and some pretty big Executives and
I'm hoping that this doesn't put the brakes on all of that I like I said I think
there's going to be people there to support him no matter what um if the brakes
are put on there will be people at Netflix there'll be people like Alice oseman
who will be there to you know keep them going hopefully you know someone like
maybe Zendaya who you know can help him do a get him in Spider-Man or something
I don't know um you know just I just hope that this really talented kid doesn't
have his career destroyed because of some [ __ ] on the internet because it may
sound hyperbolic very recently careers have been destroyed because of people
coming out um and careers that looked very promising disappeared so that's my
thoughts on this [Music] um thank you for listening I would love to hear what
you think about it in the comments be respectful and uh again thank you so much
for listening and uh I'll have a new video coming out soon thank you for
watching my most recent ones I really appreciate it and if you're one of those
people on the internet who has been demanding the kick Connor come out I feel
like you should maybe do some self-reflection of what you expect from queer
people