uh just a disclosure this video is monetized but revenue from it will be sent
along to H bomber guy's team to be dispersed to the people whose work I
plagarized uh if his team won't accept it I'll be making monthly donations to
Wikipedia and trans Lifeline going forward uh you may have also noticed that a
few of my past videos have gone up on the channel again and revenue from those
as well will also be sent along with the revenue from this video over the last
couple of months I've been getting in touch with the people who I plagiarized to
apologize one-on-one instead of a mass apology it's a bit difficult because many
of them don't have public email addresses so I'm still working on it but it is a
top priority of mine I've heard back from a few of them and they were actually
incredibly nice um accepting my apology and just imploring me to do better in
the future so I want to thank them publicly for that there's plenty that I
haven't heard back from and I completely understand that in many cases uh I
wouldn't want to talk to me either I also want to apologize to my audience
though you trusted me to be a good representative of the queer community and I
was not that I tried to be I tried to be a voice for every member of the queer
Community but that was a failed Endeavor before it even started I'm a CIS white
gay man no matter how much I try to be a good spokesperson I can never really
truly understand the life experiences of other far more put upon members of the
queer Community this is one of the reasons that I would use the their own words
but I should have made it very clear that that's what I was doing I never ever
thought that I was the only voice out there as some have said but being a CIS
white man I thought I might be able to win over some people who wouldn't
otherwise listen unless it was someone who looks and sounds just like them and
so I tried speaking for everyone and this was a horrible mistake what I thought
was being inclusive ended up leading to a lot of people feeling left out and
even offended this fell upon Nick as well as a non-binary person on the ace
spectrum they wanted to include asexuality and non-binary representation in our
videos but because Nick's experience is not Universal there is no Universal
experience people felt that we were dealing legitimizing their own experiences
because we focused on Nicks and I apologize for that and I'm sure that Nick does
as well um I'd also like to extend a personal apology to Jesse Earl better known
as Jesse gender out of everyone that I spoke to who was also a YouTuber Jesse
was by far the kindest person I think Jesse might be one of the kindest people
I've ever met or ever encountered we never actually met in person because of my
hot headedness I drew her into just this anger spiral of mine that was
unwarranted and absolutely ruined a possible friendship Jesse was actually doing
her best to kind of mitigate my frustration and and everything and and uh at
that moment and I just wasn't allowing her to do that and I really truly
honestly want to apologize to her for that again if if you ever get the chance
to speak with Jesse one-on-one or if you have gotten the chance you'll know just
how nice she is and how kind and I was a a real for uh dragging her into my
reactionary unwarranted frustration we obviously we haven't spoke since all of
that happened um but Jesse if you are watching this video um I do want you to
know that I am honestly sorry for that I hope truly honestly I hope everything
goes as well as possible for you because you deserve all of it there was a
misunderstanding between Jesse and I um after that happened that I do want to
clear up where someone who at least claimed to be a fan of Jesse's you know did
an internet and threatened to kill me which is you know being a person on the
internet death threats are unfortunately not uncommon at the time though uh I
was in a very panicked State and so I did report it to the police I did not
report Jesse to the police which is the misunderstanding that people um came
away with I did not report Jesse to the police I would have no reason to do that
and it did end up that this person had a prior record with the police um of
violent acts and they actually lived quite near me um so the police took it very
seriously they took it so seriously that they implored me not to speak to to
Jesse which I took their advice on which I shouldn't have honestly I should have
at least clarified to Jesse what was going on and not just left her hanging and
so I want to again apologize to Jesse for that but in that state I listen to the
police which is you know maybe not the best decision all the time because the
cops don't usually have the best interests of people at heart so Jesse I want to
apologize for that and everything else that happened completely understand why
you would not want to speak to me ever again but I just want you to know that I
am sorry but now back on the original topic the work Nick and I were doing on
the channel we wanted it to be you know for everyone we wanted it to be a
channel where every queer person could feel welcomed and we failed at that that
is something that in hindsight I think is impossible to create and that's why
it's important for there to be many different queer voices in spaces like
YouTube and there are what's more important is that those voices are
discoverable which is something that I should have been helping with I often
shared other queer creators on Twitter but this was when I only had you know 800
a th000 Twitter followers and these creators usually had a whole lot more than
that it was a weird thing because usually they would have infinitely more
Twitter followers but a whole lot less YouTube subscribers I'm not sure what
created that dichotomy but something was definitely off with the algorithm there
there is a part of my brain that says YouTube kind of went oh you know white
male queer let's push him and you know ignore everyone else in the community
whereas people were able to actually discover uh other queer creators on Twitter
and then make their way to YouTube but the YouTube algorithm kind of that's the
most negative interpretation I have of it which unfortunately may be true uh in
any case I should have done more to share the voices of other queer people
certainly the people whose works I used both credited and plagiarized in my
videos but also just other creators on YouTube it's important for us as a
community as vaguely defined as we are to support each other and I didn't do
that nearly enough from day one I was very taken in by the idea of being a
YouTuber as soon as my videos started to get recommended by the algorithm after
not releasing a new video for like two years I felt like I had a short period of
time to get the next videos out as soon as possible which is why so little work
was put into the writing of them and so much was taken from other places
plagiarized early on I thought crediting authors in the opening credits alone
was enough especially since the videos weren't monetized early on but I
understand now especially after speaking with some of the people who were who I
did plagiarize that that was just I was wrong that was not the way to go about
it they should have been cited properly within the text of the video video they
should have been called out in the video at least once verbally as well as you
know having citations on screen if there were a whole lot of them like with you
know one of the examples that H bomber guy used in his video was the Deep Cuts
video there were a whole lot of people who I you know credited in the opening
credits but really it's plagiarism they should have been cited on screen with
actual citations of you know links where you can find this stuff maybe there
should have even been a bibliography that you could have gone to like on a
Google drive or something like that because you know although I might have
stated that the scripts were based upon the work of these authors it in many
cases wasn't just based on their work it was their work word for word in some
cases I did get permission like with the Evil Queen's Disney video I'll put the
email up on the screen that I got from Sean Griffin um where he did give me
permission to publish the video I sent the finished video to him and he watched
it and he gave me permission but in most cases I didn't get permission and
thought that just putting the author's name in the opening credits was enough I
was much more interested in the production of the videos than the writing of
them at this point so after three or four videos I brought Nick on as a main
writer for the channel the idea is that they would write the vast majority of
the scripts I would film voice and edit the videos and we'd split the money that
came in we were roommates at the time and Nick didn't have a job so I figured it
would help both of us this is actually when we had some of our biggest videos uh
like the ones talking about Wiccan and hulkling where we lucked out because it
came out right in time for Wan division to hit and then the killing stalking
video which became our biggest video by far uh the sadism of class was another
one these videos weren't plagiarized and we loved making them uh it didn't take
long for the channel income to start growing lucky timing really because this
was around the same time that I was laid off since the company that I was
working for downsized once Co hit its second year Nick and I had both grown up
poor so we started doing what we could to try and stabilize our income as much
as possible this meant putting out more videos which meant I had to take over
more of the writing duties but since filming editing usually doing multiple
edits because of YouTube copyright issues as well as managing the channel and
dealing with my mom's recent cancer diagnosis all of that was already taking up
so much of my time and attention this led to a lot of copy and pasting blocks of
text into scripts my intention at the time was to use these as a jumping off
point once Nick and I sat down to edit the script because that's what we would
do I would sort of put in my parts Nick would put in his parts and then we would
sit down at a table read through the whole script and kind of try and make it
seem cohesive but and here's something I'm sure a lot of people will call a
excuse I have memory issues because of a head injury from when I was a child uh
they're actually getting worse I've talked about it on streams and in videos so
yes it is real but some people will call it a excuse Anyway the head injury is
actually what led to me having epilepsy which is why I can't work in any job
that involves physical labor employers can't get insurance for me to like lift
things or operate vehicles and stuff like that I actually did marketing for a
restaurant group for a little while but got let go when they found out that I
was epileptic because at least according to them I couldn't be insured to be in
the kitchens where I needed to be to film videos and take photos and stuff like
that but anyway when it came to editing the scripts I couldn't remember what I'd
written and what had been copy pasted we should have just chucked out everything
that I had put into the script and filled them in with wholly original thoughts
or I should have been taking notes on where things came from so that we could at
least site them in the video if nothing else but I never did that according to
my therapist my not thinking to do that probably stems from my recently
diagnosed ADHD but I don't know if I'm willing to say that really maybe it was
or maybe it was just plain laziness maybe I thought that this was somewhere that
I could cut a corner because I was torn in so many other directions honestly I
can't remember like I said memory issues but yes we should have just thrown out
my contributions to the scripts and filled them in with original writing but we
felt like we had too much of a time crunch we felt like we had to get videos out
more often to feed the algorithm and then my mom died and I became completely
useless I couldn't think straight at all so Nick had to completely take over
writing duties while I dealt with things you deal with after a person dies my
dad you see he can't read or write uh he was very po poor when he was a kid so
he had to leave school really young to work in order to feed his many brothers
and sisters so I had to deal with all the legal stuff after my mom died as well
as making sure that all my dad's bills were paid and whatnot especially after
his income was basically cut in half there was supposed to be a buffer here
MoneyWise as my mom had a life insurance policy that was going to be split
between my dad and myself but the insurance company RBC Insurance so if you have
insurance with them maybe rethink that uh refuse to pay out the policy because
my mother never mentioned that she had family with diabetes she didn't have
diabetes but because she didn't think to mention that she had family with
diabetes it apparently voided the policy all they did was refund a Year's worth
of premiums that she'd paid even though she'd been paying them for about 15
years one of the things the main thing really that I was supposed to do with my
portion of the insurance money was I was supposed to make a movie these were
direct instructions from my mom herself she'd been very much behind me when I
decided when I was about 10 that I wanted to be a filmmaker and she wanted me to
finally have the opportunity to do that even if she never got to see it so when
the life insurance went bust I decided to try and crowdfund it at least enough
to make a short film or two this is what teos grew out of so what happened with
Telos let me break down the timeline when we launched the campaign in February
of 2022 we hoped to raise $3,000 to produce a short film that we hoped that we
would then use as a sort of proof of concept to attract investors either private
public or through Canada's telefilm program to produce a feature some people
online have stated that $3,000 never would have covered the cost of a short film
but these were not going to be unionized movies and we were very clear about
that upfront we wanted to be able to pay actors as best that we could but we
never expected to be able to reach typical union wages the crew was going to be
made up of people that I had gone to film school with everyone including Nick
and myself we were roommates at the time living on the East Coast were more than
happy to work behind the scenes for free we planned on writing a movie with a
small cast and only one or two locations ideally ones that we could get access
to for free again we assumed all the money would go to the actors uh we kind of
looked at this is a sort of Community Theater troop but for film making after
the campaign launched it did infinitely better than we could have expected and
our Ambitions grew we started planning to make a feature instead of a short film
and the plan was to take this around to uh film festivals the feature we settled
on entitled final girl was about the Lone Survivor of a slasher movie type
Massacre 10 years after the fact as she was publishing a book about her ordeal
drawing attention from people online convinced that she had actually been the
killer all along in the end we would find out that the killer was the boyfriend
of the girl who the main character had secretly been dating at the time of the
killings and most of the people he killed were in his eyes collateral damage as
he made his way to our main character because he was not happy that his
girlfriend was cheating on him with a girl and to those who say that I
plagiarized the plot from the novel final girl support group by Grady hris read
the book it's nothing like the plot of the movie and the final girl is a Trope
in horror movies so if using the Final Girl trope is plagiarism then basically
everyone who's made a slasher movie since Texas Chainsaw Massacre owes the Toby
Hooper Estates some money but anyway Nick and I planned out the movie but I
didn't want to start writing it until the campaign ended and the money was
actually deposited uh after the insurance debacle I didn't want to count our
chickens before they hatched when the money was officially deposited I
immediately began work on the screenplay I finished it that summer soon after
Nick had left to spend two months at home in Ottawa Ontario with family I sent
the script to him to read right away because I was proud very proud of it but
Nick didn't want to share his opinion on it until he got back to the east coast
so in the meantime I put out a preliminary casting call on local job boards when
Nick got back uh he believed that the script needed a page one rework this is
also when he told me that he'd be moving back to Ontario permanently soon as he
wanted to live closer to family and live in a bigger city with more
opportunities this was a punch to the gut for me we' been living together since
2015 and had become quite dependent on each other I felt like there was no way
that I could make this movie without him and since I had received not that many
replies to the initial casting call I took this as a sign that Ontario would be
a better place to launch Telos even though all my professional professional film
connections were on the East Coast that was a mistake there I had free access to
the campground that would serve as the setting for a good portion of the movie
as well as easy access to any number of houses apartments and even offices that
friends of friends would let me use to shoot in Ontario I had none of that which
immediately put the breaks on Final Girl since there was no conceivable way of
filming in it at least not within the budget that we had after Nick and I moved
to the Toronto area he decided that he actually wanted to move home to Ottawa uh
to the Ottawa area about 5 hours away at least for a little while in the
meantime he would take a train to the GTA the crater Toronto area once a month
uh to work on YouTube videos for a few days and then head back this went on for
a little less than a year so I began brainstorming new movies that we could film
in Ontario this is where the multiple posters and teaser trailers came from I
was trying to create something tangible to show that work was still being done
with Telos I wrote multiple treatments for movies over the next few months and
Nick and I eventually landed on one called antisocial a murder mystery about a
former social media click who had gone their separate ways on very bad terms and
they were coming together for a reunion at a sort of VidCon event um they were
all sharing a house and then some of them were going to start showing up dead
around the same time summer of 2023 uh Nick had moved to the GTA full-time uh he
and I spent weeks working out exactly how the murder mystery would parse out in
the movie we had a bunch of whiteboards up on my wall and we were just breaking
it down piece by piece uh I'd put out a new casting call in the GTA and received
hundreds of responses so I was planning on casting as soon as the script was
finished but after trying to work out the numbers as far as paying actors went
Plus locations food costumes as well as the equipment that we'd already
purchased and the legal costs of setting up Telos as a business we realized that
we'd gone way too big with this movie uh the movie had too many characters and
too many locations and it was just way too complex to be able to pull off with
the budget so I started working on a script for a movie called The Listener
about a true crime podcaster focused on the mysterious deaths of homeless gay
men in his City I was a fair way into the script when we realized it' be about a
year before we could even film anything since winter was on its way and the
story relied heavily on a summer setting so we went back to the drawing board
yet again finally settling on a modern-day adaptation of the vampire based on
the book by John palador uh it's one of the original works of published vampire
fiction it's never received a proper film adaptation and was in public domain so
we thought it would be a great choice and the cast could be kept down to
basically five characters with only two of them being on screen most of the time
Nick and I both wrote treatments for it which we plan on planned on melding
together into a final treatment M that we would write the script based off of
we'd had a meeting about it and we were talking about how best to move forward
how fast we could get the script written how long it would take to cast how soon
we could start shooting we knew that it had been a while since the initial
funding of Telos came in and we wanted to get something concrete out as soon as
possible after the meeting we went to dinner and while at dinner I started
getting messages about the H bomber Guy video we were in over our heads once we
left the East Coast but the intention was never ever to Take the Money and Run I
was so insanely excited about getting to make Telos a reality I was excited
about getting to make a short film let alone a feature it's always been my dream
to make movies so Telos meant and means the world to me for Nick it was a very
exciting project but not his passion Nick wanted to write novels he still does
Nick looked at this as a good creative outlet that was way more fulfilling than
writing video essays I should have stayed where I was and not gone to Ontario
the move uprooted everything that was solid about Telos and it took a whole year
to get it back onto even anything close to stable footing but I am working with
the producer now so you can expect an actual product from Telos this year it
will likely be a short film to start off but there is going to be something
coming out of Telos this year I know I've lost your trust but I will make
nothing financially from this project the money that is there will go wholly to
paying queer artists to work on a queer film I am not nor have I ever intended
to be one of the people paid by Telos neither was Nick we made this very clear
to everyone who asked during our work on tellos is also when the YouTube channel
started getting sponsors which as I said as someone who grew up poor I basically
accepted all of them except for a few that I didn't think lined up with the
message of the channel or had some bad news surrounding them there were a couple
that had some anti-tr stuff going on in the news and I just didn't want to
associate with that but by accepting as many sponsors as we did which became
very important when Nick and I started living apart and suddenly had two rents
to pay we ended up needing to produce even more videos which along with the work
on toos and making sure everything was okay with my dad while living thousands
of kilometers away meant I had even less time for writing putting more stress on
Nick and leading to even more copy pasting from me that's what led to us putting
out I think six videos in one month at one point it might have been five but in
any case it was way too damn many videos to go out in one month we tried to take
the summer off from YouTube in 2023 to work on Telos exclusively but even that
went up in smoke because my housing situation just I won't go into it here I've
talked about it at nauseum on streams and stuff if you followed me on social
media you know the cluster I ended up in that led to me moving twice in two
months in the last couple of months I've received a lot of emails as you can
imagine uh many from people who were rightfully let down some from people
threatening everything from doxing to violence Because the Internet some with
the kindest words of support I've ever heard and others simply asking why I made
it so difficult to contact me and if I was okay they wanted to know why as they
put it I nuked my social media presence to be frank it's because I didn't want
to exist anymore if you watched my honestly horrendous apology video Back In
December you know I tried to make that happen the not existing thing but it was
more intense than taking too many pills it's not that I didn't want to be alive
anymore it's that I wished I'd never existed at all that everyone I'd ever known
would be better off had I just never been there very George Bailey which is
fitting given that it was Christmas time it's only thanks to some very very
dedicated doctors and nurses and one very good friend that I'm even here able to
film this right now I'm not going to name her because I don't want to expose
anyone else to the small but seriously unstable group of people who watched the
plagiarism and YouTube video and thought well he should be dead like I said it's
a it was a very small group but when they find out your address and some of them
are actually in your city they can be terrifying and they did find my address
and at least a couple of them showed up while I was at the hospital um my
neighbors did report them to the police uh and I I won't go into any more
details than that I'm not sure if I legally even can but there's a reason I left
Ontario within a week of getting the okay to do so from the doctors so what's
next then like I said you'll notice that a few of my videos are live again on
the channel these ones don't come from plagiarize content and for the most part
are written entirely by Nick Nick lost three years worth of work when everything
on the channel was taken down and that's simply not fair to Nick he worked hard
writing those videos and deserves to have something to point to when he's
looking for new writing work I've also done some heavy editing on other videos
that did contain other people's writing um breaking it down to only original
content again so that Nick has an actual portfolio of work as mentioned at the
beginning of the video revenue from these will be going to the H bomber guy team
to be sent out to the writers I play R from or donated to charity however it
works out in the end these edited videos will be going back up on the channel in
the next few days I think um along with two completed video essays that we
didn't actually get to release before everything happened there's also some
recent videos that didn't have any plagiarism that the sponsor asked to be taken
down and their ads removed um so they'll also be going back up without the
sponsors obviously and soon I will be releasing a new video written entirely by
me properly cited with all sources credited maybe no one will watch it but I
hope you do I want to prove that I have the ability to do this without abusing
other people's work it's a very different kind of video than I used to make
though I'd say it's more of a documentary than a video essay you won't find my
opinions anywhere in there just cited facts I'd like to keep making videos like
these new ones about people and events in gay history and definitive gay movies
that you maybe never heard of stuff like that it's actually something that I
planned on doing this year anyway there would be two videos a month Nick would
write a video essay and I would write one of these documentary style videos that
would fulfill the two videos per month sponsorship deal that we had at the time
I have no sponsors now so probably not going to be two videos a month it'll
probably just be the one which will give more time for research and citation and
crediting and making sure that there is no misinformation in the videos uh which
I know I know that misinformation made its way into uh our past videos that was
not something that we intended in some cases it was information that I was told
by people that I considered experts um in other cases it was information that we
had researched uh in other cases it was things that Nick had learned in
University the point being it was never malicious we didn't we weren't trying to
lie about things despite what a lot of people think we were not trying to spread
misinformation that was not ever Our intention and that's something else that I
want to apologize for as for my patreon everyone can stop worrying about me
relaunching it right in time for a billing cycle that will not be happening I
don't want anyone who either doesn't know about the plagiarism or simply forgot
to unsub subscribe to get build so I'm going to start from zero I have put
together a new patreon account so if you want to support my documentaries about
gay history fantastic honestly your faith in me after everything means the world
to me if not I completely understand like I said I've lost your trust I'm going
to work my ass off to earn it back though and I know for some of you I'll never
be able to do that but I'm going to try anyway you know there's a link in the
description to the patreon if you want to join it where you'll be able to see
the to yet to be released videos right now as well as you know take part in
other stuff that will be on there like a book club podcasts uh voting on
upcoming videos all the usual patreon stuff but this video is not about
promoting myself this video is about me apologizing and I am incredibly sorry it
was never my intention for anyone to feel hurt or left out or excluded it was
never my intention to spread misinformation and I'm really really sorry that
that happened and you know as as much as I've tried to explain myself in this
video you know the memory issues ADHD um the personal things that were going on
in my life with my mom getting sick and then dying and trying to make sure that
my dad was okay following that and everything those aren't excuses there is no
excuse for what I did there are lots of people who make videos on YouTube there
are lots of people who make podcasts TV shows movies documentaries who have
going on in their lives that's very stressful and they don't plagiarize people's
work there is no excuse for what I did for everything that happened whether it
be with my mom or the memory issues there was something I could have done to
mitigate that there's nothing I could have done about my mom getting cancer but
knowing my patrons as I did in hindsight I'm pretty damn sure that if I had said
guys I need to step away for a couple of months to deal with this I don't think
a whole lot of people would have fled the patreon a part of me thought they
would at the time because I catastrophy I but I really don't think that would
have happened even in the very beginning when I was like oh I got to get as many
videos out as possible if I had said to those people who subscribe to the
channel early on you know for the next video I want to make sure that it's fully
correct and I want to make sure that you know it's as high quality as it can
possibly be I I don't think anyone would have you know unsubscribed or not
watched the next video because it didn't come out a couple of weeks after the
algorithm decided that I was important for some reason I convinced myself of
these things but I don't think in hindsight looking at it I don't think any of
that would have happened and so there is no excuse for the misinformation and
there is certainly no excuse for the plagiarism I up bad I stole people's words
and thoughts and opinions that they worked incredibly hard writing and
Publishing and finding someone to publish their thoughts and opinions and
research hard research that they had done and you know in some cases I put them
their names in the opening credits which I thought was fine but like I said I've
spoken with some of these people now and I understand why that was not okay
because putting someone's name in the opening credits you know okay here's a
list of people here's you know seven or eight people who are even if it was you
know everyone even if it wasn't you know taking giant chunks of their work
paragraphs at a time even if it was just a sentence here or there putting their
name in the opening credits doesn't tell anyone where their work is in the video
nobody can say oh I really like that opinion or wow that's a really you know
smart observation I want to read more from this person and then you know to find
something you found interesting you have to go play detective and so yes just
putting their name in the opening credits was wrong I thought it was cool and
you know cinematic but it was wrong citations should have been done properly
there should never have been just chunks of text being put into videos there
were times like with uh the queer history of Hollywood videos that I released
this past spring they were based directly on the Celluloid closet by veto Russo
the book not the documentary I expanded on it quite a bit but it was based
directly on veto's work and I credited him in the opening credits and I thought
it was okay to just do that because the book was out of print and veto had
passed away unfortunately from HIV complications due to HIV and AIDS and I
looked at it more as extend in his legacy making sure that people knew about the
work that he did but I don't think I ever mentioned his name in those videos he
was crit like I said his name's in the opening credits but I don't think I ever
verbally mentioned his name someone who I have so much respect for who kind of
an idol of mine and I never mentioned his name it wasn't because I didn't
respect him or anything like that and it also wasn't because I wanted people to
think that this was all me again if if that was the case I wouldn't have put his
name in the in the credits I never wanted people to think that this was all me
so that's actually one of the videos I want to make I want to make a documentary
style video talking about vetto Russo and his life and everything that he
accomplished because he didn't just write the Celluloid closet he did a lot more
than that he's someone that people should know about obviously people can
research him uh there's books about him but I know you know it's easier to sit
down and watch a 20 or 30 minute YouTube video than it is to read a book I'd
like to make a video about VTO Russo properly cited and not just you know copy
pasted from a book I want to do the work I want to prove not just to you but to
myself that I can do the work and that's why I've started making these
documentaries working on these I can't I can't really put into words how sorry I
am I've tried I've tried writing like a blog entry to say that I was sorry for
about two months now and I just can't I can't get across how sorry I am and I
know actions speak way louder than words and I hope with my actions that I can
show you that I am sorry I'm sorry to everyone I play Dr I'm sorry to everyone
I've hurt I'm sorry to people who feel lied to I'm sorry to people who feel like
I abused the queer Community was never my intention again I'm sorry to Jesse
There were actually several other YouTubers who uh were very nice to me but I
feel like with everything that went down Jess Jesse is the one that I should
apologize to the most I'm sorry for the people who felt scammed who thought that
Telos was a grift it was not it is not I am very sorry and I hope given time and
my actions proving it that you can believe me