
This video is brought to you by Wren. While the plot of The Rings of Power was kept a 

mystery leading up to its release, and some might
argue is still a mystery, it was clear that if it 

did not focus on the Silmerillian, then it would
flush out what sparse history existed within 

Tolkien’s works that were not proper novels. The show ended up being a loose adaptation 

of the Second Age of Middle Earth,
the least explored in the books. The first 

dark lord, Morgoth — a figure similar to Satan,
as an angel who betrayed a higher 

power and was then cast out — has been
definitively defeated. His lieutenant, 

Sauron, however, is unaccounted for. The Second Age was, as Tolkein wrote, 

about 3500 years; during this time,
Sauron mustered forces in secret, and forged the 

Rings of Power which he would then use to control
the power structures of Men and Dwarves — and 

then planned to make a stand against the Elves.
The final confrontation with Sauron was depicted 

in the prologue to Lord of the Rings movies,
where we see Isildor and Elrond leading 

a coalition Men and Elves against him. For the sake of expediency and dramatic 

tension, this period of time has been
condensed considerably in Rings of Power. Despite 

this, both the Tolkein estate (Tolkein’s family)
and the Tolkien society (Lord of the Rings 

Loremasters on salary) gave the show their stamp
of approval. And they’re really big sticklers 

about adhering to Tolkein’s writing BY THE LETTER. They actually pulled strings at Amazon to 

guarantee that Peter Jackson couldn’t be
involved in the production in any way whatsoever. 

They didn’t like the changes he made to the film
adaptations, you see. Because… you need to 

change things… when adapting something to film Regardless, somehow The Rings of 

Power got their gold star. And yet
there is a DISCOURSE on the internet 

— as there are with all things. But
a contingent of fans are outraged that the 

show is, ‘apparently,’ completely unfaithful
to Tolkein’s creative intentions. But not 

for the narrative reasons you might think. For those who know better than the 

flesh and blood of the creator himself,
apparently Galadriel has no right to be a warrior, 

and there were no black people in Middle Earth.
They claim that Amazon’s ‘wokifying’ The Lord of 

the Rings to appeal to a woke-liberal agenda or
something. That they’re throwing in ‘forced 

diversity’ to appeal to a larger audience,
and/or that the woke gestapo censorship 

board will have them all taken away and
taken to woke-prison if they don’t 

make the lead character a girlboss. And, they claim — they who are blessed with 

understanding the artistic vision of a man who
has been dead since the 70s, that Rings of Power’s 

decision to make Galadriel a primary character,
and their inclusion of black actors, is 

in staunch violation of Tolkein’s work. That this is making Lord of the Rings ‘woke.’ I’m sorry to be the one to inform you, 

but based on a contemporary definition of
‘woke’ — Lord of the Rings was ALWAYS 

kinda woke. The Lord of the Rings is
brazenly anti-war, pro-racial-cohabilitation, 

collectivist, anti-industry, and pro-nature. In fact these themes are so explicit in the text 

that Tolkein himself was nearly laughed out of
his academic position at Oxford — and not just 

because he wrote a fairy tale for grown-ups — but
because it was just sooOOOooo soft. So much of 

it was dedicated to men learning how to talk
about their FEELINGS. And protecting forests. 

And dismantling industry in lieu of pastoralism. YECH. We want REAL, books, John. Like… a 265,000-word 

book about a guy who goes on a walk in Ireland
while his wife cheats on him. Not 575,000 

words about why protecting the natural world
is important. But it actually is important, which 

brings me to the sponsor of this video, Wren. Wren.co is a website that makes it easy 

to calculate and offset your own carbon
footprint. By answering a few questions 

you can find out your carbon impact,
and how to reduce it. You can then make 

a monthly contribution to offset your
carbon footprint by funding carbon 

reduction projects around the world. The climate crisis affects all of 

us. Personally, being asthmatic,
I’m extremely sensitive to very 

high or very low temperatures,
so the extreme variance in temperatures 

over the last few years has made living
with breathing difficulties all that much more 

difficult. But we can actually help to slow down,
if not reverse these climate changes. And Wren is 

a simple and effective way to make a difference. Wren has multiple projects running but their 

tree planting initiative is one that I actually
really believe in. It helps remove CO2 from the 

air, and regulates the planet's temperatures.
And would definitely be something that Tolkien 

and the elves of Middle Earth would get behind. The climate crisis is the most nefarious and 

wide-reaching fight we have on our hands today,
with the most catastrophic circumstances. It 

will take a lot to end the climate crisis,
but you can start today by 

learning more at wren.co. The first 100 people who sign up 

using the link in the description,
will have 10 extra trees planted in their name! Can I just say how awesome it is that my first 

sponsor is one I actually believe in? Feels good. Okay, now before we set sail to Middle 

Earth, don’t forget to like and subscribe,
we’re trying to hit 250,000 subscribers by 

the end of the year and then we’re going
to release something really awesome. I 

can’t talk about it just yet but it’s
worth hitting that button and 

ringing that bell. I promise. NOW onto our feature presentation. Oddly,
the biggest sticking point when 

it comes to the discourse around
Rings of Power seems to be the 

whole… Woman with a sword thing. Galadriel as a warrior, clad in armor, taking 

up the sword against evil. Apparently it’s just
not very ‘realistic…’ She, like any other fictional woman 

who’s even halfway capable of doing
anything, is dismissed as a ‘Mary Sue.’ “Oh she didn’t have to WORK for her abilities!” “She’s just good at things because 

‘they’ needed woke points from women.” “She doesn’t deserve her skills!” And so on and so forth. This argument is dumb and I can’t believe 

that when you have your Luke Skywalkers,
John Wicks, Peter Parkers, and… 

every character Dwane Johnson
has ever played — that we still 

need to have this discussion. Legolas from the movies. He walks on fresh 

snow, surfs down the trunk of a Mumakil,
and he’s just the best at everything. 

And that’s perfectly fine, apparently. The Maries and Garies of Sue-dom 

DO exist. The chosen ones,
the special stars, the underdogs, 

the diamonds in the rough, the— “I’m just an orphan from the South side Chicago!” It’s a thing. And it doesn’t see gender, 

race, or age. So we just have to deal
with it. But when you’re entering the 

realm of functionally immortal people,
Isn’t that the point where we stop giving a crap 

about how characters developed their skills? We’re dealing with a race of eternally young 

and beautiful people whose Elf eyes see in
telescopic vision and who can catch arrows in 

mid air. But the specialist person of a group
of already special people having a vagina 

is where you wanna draw your suspension
of disbelief? I won’t argue with you if you 

actively make the decision to choose stupid. Old adage: “Never argue with an idiot.
Other people won’t be able to 

tell the two of you apart.” If you don’t wanna deal with 

plot armor, by all means,
there’s another fantasy television 

series that’s far too squeamish
to actually admit it’s a fantasy series. 

And there’s no women warriors over there. Part of the problem I’m sure is that 

Galadriel doesn’t LOOK like how,
apparently, a woman warrior SHOULD look. 

Nevermind that aside from Brianne of Tarth,
Lady warriors don’t really have enough of 

a hold in fiction to really have a ‘look.’ Maybe the problem is that Galadriel isn’t 

really ‘trying’ to be pretty. Neither does
she wear seductive eye liner, nor does she don 

the classic breast-emphasizing, rib-shattering
breastplate usually put on female knights. And 

yet, I feel that if she did actually go out of her
way to look pretty and do those things, she would 

be dismissed as being pointlessly sexualized. The ire, at the core, is not about the 

depiction, but the fact that she’s there
IN GENERAL. That she has a role beyond the 

one she had in Jackson’s film adaptations
which was to look mystical and pat 

our gallant heroes on the head when
they needed a pep talk. Which, to be fair, 

was most of what she did in the book too. But if your only exposure to Tolkein was the 

films and the body text of The Lord of the
Rings or The Hobbit — then yes, you may be under 

the impression that this is how Tolkein depicted
the bearer of the Elven ring Nenya, and women in 

general. But if you go through the appendices,
the histories of Middle Earth, and the 

Silmarillion, you realize that’s not quite true. Specifically with Galadriel — there is a 

reason they chose her to carry the central
plot of Rings of Power. In the appendices of 

The Lord of the Rings it blatantly describes
Galadriel as leading armies of Elves against 

Sauron in the north. While our main heroes are
fighting to protect Minas Tirath, Galaderial 

is acting as the general of an Elven army,
wasting Sauron’s forces. She is not just a woman 

in a fancy dress. She is a military leader. We know Galadriel actively fought in those 

battles, so why not battles in the past? The Rings of Power DOES take place in the Second 

Age, where information on all characters is
relatively sparse — at least before the Rise of 

Sauron and the forging of the Rings. There is a
limited amount of information about what Galadriel 

was doing — some real broad strokes kinda stuff. If Tolkein had some never-published biographical 

information that specifically says that Galadriel
did not do these things (and there IS a 

lot of hidden writing that his estate is
gradually publishing), then they would not 

give the series their blessing. As they did. But the more you realize that this whole Galadriel 

business is wacko the more you see that this is a
problem in genre fiction as a whole (particularly 

those which lean into action and adventure). It’s
okay to INCLUDE women, but there are very strict 

guidelines for how they ought to be included. Namely… if a woman’s role isn’t 

exclusively to assist men,
then she’s a Mary Sue. She needs to help 

funnel all the attention to a male co-lead,
because that’s where HER attention 

needs to be primarily directed. And it’s one thing to say: “I don’t 

identify with this central characters,
therefore I have no interest in this media,” 

and just disengaging. But the problem is a
lot of men — especially white men — seem 

to adopt this OUTRAGE that something that
was never promised to be FOR them is being 

taken away FROM them. Like any space that
is given to anyone else is a space that 

is taken away from them on principle. It seems that ‘inclusion’ — to this 

audience — stops there. Including
people. There’s no discussion about 

how these people would like to BE
included. And forget about any media 

that is made specifically FOR them. After all, when Legolas is a bad ass,
it’s because ‘reasons.’ When Galadriel 

is a bad ass, it’s ‘woke garbage.’ And by all means if you just didn’t know that all 

the weird fictional history that Tolkien included
in footnotes was actually meant to be taken 

seriously, then that’s fine. But then again,
if you don’t know the nitty-gritty details 

about something, do some research first
before acting like you do. These are things *I* 

know, and I’m far from being a Tolkien scholar. But there’s a reason for why, when people are 

confronted with Galadriel’s canonical martial
and marshaling skills, they go silent. Or 

they ignore the counterpoint all together.
It’s because the reality of the lore does not 

align with how they have been conditioned to
approach fantasy tropes in general. And this is an 

unfortunate state of Fantasy in this day and age. While recently, we have been making 

strides to diversify the genre;
for the longest time it was very white and very 

masculine. And even though Lord of the Rings is
almost entirely responsible for fathering the 

modern fantasy genre, it seems ‘The Fellowship’
was the only thing that was really emulated. 

And neither the pretty gay, traumatized country
boys nor the powerful women doing stuff 

on the sidelines ever really translated. And so their arguments shift away from Galadriel 

specifically. These people have already decided
Rings of Power is bad because it challenges 

their privilege, so they need to pivot.
They wouldn’t want to look sexist next to 

their very white girlfriends, now would they. So suddenly the black Elf or the black 

Dwarf or the black Harfoot (progenitor
of Hobbits) are proof POSITIVE that 

the creators at Amazon Prime have
maliciously exploited the source content 

to perpetuate their woke liberal agenda. (Imagine Amazon being woke…) Because, they claim, Tolkein would 

never write anything of the sort. Galadriel’s role in the fight against capital-E 

Evil is front and center of ‘The Discourse,’ but
it’s kind of a nothing-topic. Galadriel led armies 

in the War of the Ring. Elves have generations
to master martial abilities. There is sufficient 

enough evidence in Tolkein’s extensive writings to
justify an adaptation that includes her leading 

the fight against darkness in the Second Age. Though there’s no textual evidence that she did 

so, this is an adaptation. And though we love the
Peter Jackson trilogy (I consider the three movies 

as one to be my favorite movie of all time),
Jackson made plenty of changes that we just 

forgive now. Such as Arwen: Warrior Princess. But the more sinister issue from what I can 

see is the ever-prevalent and yet quiet racism
regarding the discourse of black characters. 

I feel as if the reason this line of complaint
is being allowed to run its course is mostly 

due to the fact that Twitter is so overused
to a discussion about what skin colors 

should or should not be allowed in fantasy
that collectively everyone's just ignoring the 

haters in the hopes that they’ll just go away. Though I am, at least somewhat, 

concerned that this is going to
result in an emboldening of these bigoted 

ideals. Especially because, at a glance,
the arguments seem valid. They say: “There can’t 

be any characters of color in Middle Earth because
Tolkein (a British man born into colonized South 

Africa) was only writing about white characters.” And supporters of this argument often cite 

authenticity to the source material for WHY
all the characters MUST be white to 

remain faithful to Tolkein’s vision. However, as Tolkien is, more or less, the 

grandfather of modern Fantasy fiction, I feel
like it’s important to address these arguments 

in the context of the Lord of the Rings. And
also how characters of color are not NECESSARILY 

excluded from Tolkein’s world building — at worst,
they’re not incompatible. I generally avoid going too deep into 

discussions around race because I’m pretty white,
and I certainly benefit from white privileges. 

I am reluctant to discuss issues around racism
in media because my opinions are observational 

— not lived experiences. And yes, even instances
of what some may decry as ‘forced inclusion’ are 

important because visible representation is good
regardless of what a creator may have intended. 

Forced whiteness happens far more often, with
the vast majority of historical fiction between 

Greece and Egypt being cast with white actors. However, I DO want to provide 

not only canonical evidence,
but historical fact for why this 

inclusion is not only possible,
but faithful to history and probably 

Tolkein’s writings themselves. In Middle Earth, there are indeed faraway lands 

which do indeed host people of color. There’s a
kind of distant oriental-coded desert land with 

dark skinned people. Which I feel is where a lot
of these expectations come from. Reading into 

the argumentative structures of fantasy-purists,
people of color are permitted in Eurocentric 

fantasy… but they MUST feel exotic to the plot.
 
   THIS is the context in which some 

fantasy-purists seem to accept
characters of color — if at all. (At least 

from what I’ve observed.) And naturally,
this permissible ‘othering’ process does not 

require (in fact, it discourages) accurate
portrayals of the ethnic cultures from which 

it draws inspiration. Accuracy requires nuance,
which requires a subplot that will take attention 

away from the epic romance — or what HAVE you. The result being this orientalist mosaic 

of visual and purely aesthetic cues pulled
from a number of cultures from a number of 

eras. Whether or not it’s done in good faith,
I’m sure, is up to a case-by-case 

basis. The thing is though,
in high fantasy specifically, this is 

less problematic and just… kinda… lazy. There doesn’t seem to be a whole lot of 

understanding from a lot of writers about
what different fantasy ‘races’ are supposed 

to be other than “These ones are like 18th
century Persians, these ones are like 16th 

century Chinese, these ones are African.”
You know, the ONE African culture. Given the care and effort many writers put 

into creating their cultural range of Elves,
Dwarves, and cat people, you’d think 

they’d be more than willing to research
actual history for their tokenistic non-white 

foreigners. At least, to his credit perhaps,
Tolkein made absolutely no attempt to include 

these foreign cultures beyond throwaway mentions. Because in Tolkein, the use of multiple races — 

elves and dwarves and humans specifically — was
always MEANT to represent different races and 

cultures. With no shortage of racial tension
between Legolas and Gimli, it’s abundantly 

clear that the entire point of The Lord of
the Rings is various races coming together to 

fight against the forces of capital-D Darkness. Tolkien himself served in the first World 

War, where the British Empire called upon
the provinces to send their best men to fight. He 

saw a myriad of various cultures coming together
to fight a problem that was… admittedly… 

primarily a ‘British’ problem. The issues
arising from internal European political 

issues would have likely gone unnoticed in,
say, India or Hong Kong — were 

it not for British colonialism. Suffice to say, Tolkein wrote his racial subtext 

to carry his observations. When different cultures
put aside their prejudice and work together 

— things are GOOD. When they do the opposite,
things are BAD. When people are allowed to 

be different things are GOOD. When people
are homogenized into an ethnostate, 

such as with Orcs, things are BAD. Racial tensions in The Hobbit’s Battle of Five 

armies bear a resemblance to World War 1 or a
mindless resource war. There was no reason for any 

of these nations to go to war aside from greed. However, we can see The Lord of The Rings as a 

reflection of his thoughts on World War Two — with
the ominous and obvious evil of fascism REQUIRING 

the world to go to war. Even the Ents and Eagles,
which usually stay removed from the 

conflicts of man, do their part. In
order to halt the advance of Evil, Elves 

and Dwarves needed to appreciate the other. Legolas and Gimli join the fellowship in 

spite of their mutual distrust toward each
other . But over the course of three books 

of shared trauma, there’s so much camaraderie
between them that they sail off into the 

west together, like good heterosexual bros. The use of races in modern fantasy and — in 

science fiction, the use of aliens — has,
since Tolkein, been meant to be 

a stand-in for racial diversity. Most people in England at the peak of colonialism 

wouldn’t SEE the negative consequences of Imperial
expansion, so it would have been a tough sell 

to convince them that maybe it’s better to let
other cultures thrive independently, 

and develop cooperative partnerships,
rather than force them to yield to British 

Authority. For most of these people,
all they knew was ‘The British Way’ — the 

baseline of British Propaganda was all they had. Using various races from Nordic mythology offered 

Tolkein a way to have this discussion without
having the messaging instantly dismissed. 

The intention being that a reader of The
Lord of the Rings would take away from the 

plot: the values of cultural cooperation. But contrast this with older fantasy 

stories and myths. In Nordic mythology,
the racial objective was for all races to conform 

to the authority of the coalition between the
Asir and Vanir. Specifically the immigrant, 

warlike Asir, who were held as the highest race. Odin: “Oh shit.” Among Tolkein’s contemporaries, take C.S. Lewis 

as an example of the state of Racial analogies
in fantasy. The ‘good races’ of Narnia are 

those who conform to Jesus-Lion's vague
albeit totalitarian arbitrary values and laws. The 

‘Bad Ones’ are those who follow the White Witch,
the Devil analogy, or are allied with Lewis’ 

flavor of demonized orientalist culture. (And yes… it’s not a coincidence that Lewis’ 

god-jesus figure is a Lion — which is the
symbol of the British Empire itself. Funny since 

there were certainly no lions on the island of
Britain. But his argument was that British 

Imperial values were inherently civilized,
and that other cultures would 

benefit from British rule.) Tolkien himself — and this may come as a surprise 

to some — actually opposed British expansionism. In letters he wrote: “I know nothing about British 

or American imperialism in the
Far East that does not fill 

me with regret and disgust.” “I have the hatred of apartheid in my bones.” Industrialism is actually one of the main reasons 

that Tolkien strongly opposed expansion — he felt
that the two go hand in hand and — surprise 

— Tolkein was a certified tree-hugger. He
created the Ents as a child when he saw a 

production of MacBeth and was aggressively
disappointed that there were no actual walking 

trees as the three witches had promised. On top of the fact that Tolkien seemed to 

earnestly want human cultures to function
cooperatively, he also longed for a respect 

toward nature. His favoritism and clear dedication
towards crafting Elven culture is reflected in 

this. The elves’ primary cultural motif is a
strong connection to nature, almost functioning 

as stewards for groves and forests. Also that
they most strongly oppose Sauron in this regard, 

who has NO love for the natural life of Mordor,
which, it is alluded to, and even shown in Rings 

of Power to have once been a lush, verdant land. Many Dwarves even met their end 

by over-mining inside of Morea,
stripping the world of its resources and awakening 

the sleeping Balrog deep within the depths. And humans rest somewhere between the 

three — some are staunch guardians of land;
some relentlessly hoard wealth, and 

seek power for power’s sake. The
significance of a Hobbit bearing the 

ring is because Hobbits have a strong
resistance to The Ring’s whispers of power. 

Culturally, Hobbits crave the simple life:
neither wealth nor recognition, but family, 

community, and an honest life. This is how
Bilbo was able to wear the ring for decades 

before BEGINNING to succumb to its darkness. Whereas Gandalf (wizards in Middle earth 

are kinda like Angels) was so aware of
how susceptible he was to the promise of 

ultimate power that he wouldn’t even touch it. This kind of Hobbit-esque community and closeness 

to the land is exactly how Tolkein felt people
ought to live. He himself, a professor at Oxford,
had disdain for living in and around the 

college — instead, preferring the countryside. And he was hugging trees BEFORE 

this whole Global Warming thing. However, in spite of this, that isn’t to 

say he was without flaw. He WAS after all,
a white British citizen who, regardless of his 

displeasure at expansionism, did benefit from
British Imperial status — whether he knew it or 

not. Regardless of how culture-conscious one may
consider themselves, especially in eras where the 

exchange of information and ideology is not fluid,
there are naturally going to be areas where 

propaganda forms the basis of one’s ideologies. Though the Orcs were actually derived from the 

brutish types of the Oxford Rugby Club (hence
the acronym for describing creatures who, in The 

Hobbit, were simply ‘goblins’), he later described
their physical appearance as resembling “the 

least lovely mongol-types.” Tolkein, after all,
was developing these opinions in a post-WW2 

European Allied front. His perception of East
Asian people as a whole probably was coloured 

to a significant degree by wartime propaganda. …Still kinda nasty though. Tolkein also lived in the early half of the 

20th century, where there was no corrective
discourse to lean people away from thinking like 

that. Despite having many culturally progressive
viewpoints, very few individuals are invulnerable 

to cultural attitudes of their day and age. No ‘but.’ Tolkein said some racist crap. He likely held 

racist sentiments in spite of writing content
about the benefits of races working 

together. This does not excuse him;
he and his work need to be fit into the context 

of the cultural zeitgeist of post-war Europe.
What was ‘progressive’ in the context of THEN 

does not need to mean it is progressive today. But what it SHOULD do is inspire us to realize 

how much further we need to be than THAT. I am often annoyed about how other white 

people will use ‘everybody was racist back
then’ as a way — not to frame systems of 

privilege and oppression as they existed
during peak colonialism — but as a defense 

to shield cultural and political figures
from criticism. This is often used to 

venerate figures like Joseph Conrad. “Oh… Heart of Darkness isn’t ACTUALLY racist,
because it was relatively LESS racist 

than other writers’ work at the time.” Our scholars seem to be reluctant to admit that 

some of the most influential figures perpetuated
racist ideologies, and will go through a battery 

of mental gymnastics to justify their defense. And again I’m not excusing Tolkein 

either. Some of his beliefs were wrong. However, the text and theme of Tolkien's writing
is in dismantling imperialism, racial cooperation, 

and favoring pacifist pastoralism. That said,
far be it from me to use messaging from a work 

of fiction and assume it applies to the creator
also. Rowling has done some serious psychic 

damage to our cultural consciousness. Just
because progressive sentiments CAN be read into 

Tolkein, does not mean the man himself held them. (And yes there was like…plenty of 

implicit racism in Rowling’s work…
when you actually… read it back as an… adult…) The problem here is that, unlike Rowling, 

Tolkien is dead. He neither has the ability
to elaborate on a contemporary reading of 

his work, nor does he have the ability to
learn from mistakes and change his thinking — 

if that is something he would be willing to do. Bear in mind that ‘the old person set 

in their ways’ is a myth. Look at people
like Jane Fonda and Bernie Sanders, who were 

already pretty damn progressive in the 1960s,
and have only gotten more accepting 

as time went on. Fonda, in particular,
has become a climate warrior in her later years,
using her money to bring awareness and save the 

planet for generations she’ll never live to see. I like to think that, provided 

the opportunity to be corrected,
Tolkein would have taken it. This is based 

on the content of his writing, which does
include an open-mindedness that is uncommon 

of writing for his lifetime and earlier. And,
also based on textual evidence, I do believe 

that Tolkein never intended Middle Earth to be
homogeneously ‘white.’ Even if it was 

not on his mind while he was writing,
I don’t think he would have been upset 

by the inclusion of people of color. Of course… I never met the guy though. Whether or whether not that is optimism 

on my part will never be known. And
this is something I AM willing to be wrong 

about, if evidence to the contrary arises. Probably something I should have led with is that 

— in the first chapter of The Lord of the Rings,
during a very gratuitous description of 

Hobbit culture and appearance, Tolkein
errantly describes (some of) the Hobbits 

as having ‘brown skin.’ This, of course,
varies depending on the various lineages 

of Hobbits. Those descended from Harfoots,
which are the hobbitty people we follow in 

the Rings of Power, had the darkest skin. …It’s in the literal text. It’s right there. This is contrasting, of course, against the 

Orcs — described as having ‘black’ skin,
which some read as racial coding. But given that 

he describes hobbits as having ‘brown’ skin,
I’m inclined to believe he meant that the 

black skin of the Orcs was more like… tar
or oil. The bi-product of the increasingly 

industrializing world he hated so much. And, like with women in roles typically 

reserved for men (such as Aowen,
slayer of the Witch King) this is a problem that 

not only permeates the entire fantasy genre,
but which is propagated by a loud minority 

online who hate inclusion like this. Again — Tolkein — said some crap. But these 

textual and subtextual messages in this very
pivotal piece of the genre’s history should 

embolden modern fantasy consumers to demand
more inclusion, and highlight just how little 

the ‘haters’ actually know about the genre. Hypothetically speaking,
let’s say Tolkein did intend for an all-white, 

completely homogenized depiction of Middle Earth.
Just like references to tomatoes, a vegetable 

that was not native to Europe, are not
historically accurate, an all-white depiction 

of medieval Europe is not accurate either. Contrary to Hollywood depictions, Europe was, 

while far from the pinnacle of diversity,
host to a wide range of peoples. 

Owing to its prosperity in wool,
the continent was based around an export 

economy. There’s a wide range of travel
logs from the more urbanized Middle East outlining 

the culture of the villages and repurposed Roman
forts that now served as the political and 

economic hubs of this gentle, temperate land. Urban centers of Medieval and Renaissance 

Europe would be home to a wide range of
merchants, traders, diplomats, politicians, 

artists, and travelers who were not white. Landed immigration is not an invention 

of the 19th and 20th centuries. Human
beings have migrated and intermixed 

as long as trade has been a pivotal
element of national survival. The greatest 

cultures on the planet — then and now — are
those that welcomed diversity, or at 

least approached it with ambivalence. So in the event that Tolkein — or any other 

creator — used medieval Europe as a setting
and depicted a homogeneously white cast… 

They’re just egregiously wrong. ESPECIALLY if
they cite ‘historical accuracy’ as a 

reason for why you think everything
should be white-washed. In which case, 

adapting these works of fiction to fit
our current understanding of history is not only 

‘correct’ — but it enriches the original creation. [Beloved all-white fantasy story] is BETTER 

because we have corrected some of the author’s
historic misunderstandings. Historical context 

is added to the story, and the world in which
this story takes place is richer because 

it contains geo-political implications. Migration is part of human history. So are 

strong women. So are feminine men. And it has
always struck me that a genre like fantasy, 

which in the very description requires the
use of creation and imagination, is so limited 

to white, straight men doing masculine things. A man with a sentient book of 

spells fighting dragons with
a sword forged out of mythical metals? 

Perfectly fine. But swap the skin color
or add mammary glands and suddenly it’s 

‘inaccurate,’ ‘forced,’ or ‘political.’ So in spite of the fact that gender-inclusion and 

racial diversity are done deals as far as history
is concerned… what does that mean for US? Queer 

people, who have struggled to justify our own
visibility in history, and whose manifestation 

of queerNESS has occupied a very wide range of
identities and cultural conditions of 

acceptance? Are we ALSO unimaginable? The Lovers of Modena is a culturally significant 

archeological find excavated near Modena,
Italy in 2009. Believed to be buried between 

the 4th and 6th century BC — when life in
pre-Roman Italy was locked in tribalism. 

They are now on display in the city’s Museum. Interred side-by-side with 

their hands clasped together,
this is a strong cultural message that 

even when life was nasty, brutish,
and short — our ancestors believed that true love 

transcended death. It’s a romantic sentiment.
They are inseparable in death; it stands 

to reason they were inseparable in life. However a few years ago, researchers from Bologna 

confirmed that both skeletons had Y-chromosomes.
Suddenly, the Lovers of Modena, a symbol of 

eternal love, became the BROTHERS of Modena. I mean nearly everyone called BS on that so 

it doesn’t really matter. Modern historians,
allegedly, approach their study with a 

degree of sobriety — history journalists,
on the other hand, seem to believe 

that they can only publish an article
if it is palatable to a straight, cis audiences. Regardless in where the error in communication 

lies, the fact remains, many people believe that
‘The Gays’ were invented in the 1800s, if not 

the 1960s. That lesbians don’t actually exist
because it’s perfectly normal for every girl 

to have that one special GAL PAL. And trans
people only started existing with Caytlin 

Jenner or, worse, The Silence of the Lambs. I mean if gay people are as 

imaginary as wizards and goblins,
you’d think we’d be lining the pages of 

fantasy books. Funny story about Unicorns
is that they’re actually an ancient Greek 

invention. Thing is, they never appeared
in Greek myth because they ACTUALLY BELIEVED 

they were real. (It’s likely they were derived
from the stories of travelers told about 

rhinoceroses from deep African explorations.) To history, we’re fairies. 

To fantasy, we’re unicorns. But one thing that everyone seems to 

agree on is that neither fairies nor
unicorns ACTUALLY exist. They’re just things 

that go into stories. But only SOME stories. I’m referencing this from a hypothetical 

proposition in The Rings of Power — the
fact that everyone’s reading Elrond 

as gay. Or Bi. We know that he DOES
have a daughter. Granted childbearing 

doesn’t necessarily mean you have to
love or be attracted to the co-parent. For 

everything else, there’s a turkey baster. Anyway — I’m kinda like: you know it 

would be REALLY cool if they actually
made elves kinda bisexual. I guess if you’re 

a collective of immortal tree-worshippers,
just ONE gender is gonna get boring after 

a while, so why not try it all out, right? But then I’m like… Oh damn. How is Twitter gonna explode if that DOES happen? 

The WAVE of ‘definitely not homophobia’ that we’d
see? And in spite of the fact that these 

are immortal characters who do not exist
in a post-christianized cycle of homophobia, and 

instead are fashioned to resemble more celtic and
nordic sensibilities, both cultures which found it 

was perfectly acceptable for guys to platonically,
well, you know — for some reason 

these fantasy people with a fantasy
culture and a fantasy language and 

a fantasy religion are PREDICATED on
puritanical christian values regarding 

with whom it is acceptable to copulate. It doesn’t make the slightest sense to me why we
haven’t just collectively decided that 

elves are queer. Hashtag: OccupyElrond. And of course, when it comes 

to fantasy these days, The
Rings of Power is naturally going to compete with… House of the Dragon. A discussion about representation in fantasy 

— especially of queer characters is going to
draw a comparison to Game of Thrones and 

its current spinoff series. Both of which
have HAD queer characters. I say HAD because 

they usually end up dead within a season.
Can’t keep us around too long or else we might 

start to stretch the suspension of disbelief. Nevermind that, yes, we have existed at all 

points throughout history. And even sometimes
—out— among the ruling classes where there 

was a safety net of affluence to protect us. But if I am predicting a wave of controversy 

over Gay Elrond, how did Game of Thrones escape
that controversy with Oberon, Loras, 

and Renly, and now Laenor and Joffrey? Well. They died. First off. Except Laenor,
he’s alive for now. But the rest all 

died kinda pointlessly. Yes. Even Renly. Because through dialogue we are TOLD 

that he is most likely to succeed
Robert Barathian for the Iron Throne, 

and while he seems the most capable,
the narrative was always FRAMED around Stanis 

(the straight one) and his struggle against his
brother. He was certainly not framed as a hero, 

but the narrative was framed from his perspective. Yes, Renly was VISIBLE, but the bros could 

cop out of that representation because
there was always a more typically 

masculine figure close at hand. And boobs. Lots of boobs. And there was never any incentive to get 

invested in his character. And situations
where his sexuality were addressed 

were usually the back end of a joke. The same was abundantly true for Loras, 

even though he held even LESS significance
to the plot. What did he even do? People 

just made fun of him for being pretty and
boning boys. I think there were more lines 

where other characters talked about him being
queer than lines that he actually spoke. 

Probably an exaggeration… but maybe not. And again — Oberon. He befit ‘the foreigner’ 

trope I mentioned earlier. As a foreigner,
there is license for him to have a different 

cultural mindset. Again… there was an ‘out.’
Nobody was forcing anyone to identify 

with the queers the way everyone was
forced to identify with the 

straights. Business as usual. But also keep in mind that all of 

these homos died horrible, humiliating,
painful deaths — pretty bad ones even for 

Game of Thrones’ standards. Except the one gay
brothel manager who betrayed Loras to the Faith 

Militant. Who hated… gay people… for some reason. Once more we’re in a fantasy world with 

a fantasy religion that inexplicably
hates queerness for no other reason 

than mirroring Christianized Europe… But we’re also living in a period of time 

where it’s a struggle to convince people
that we even exist TODAY, let alone when 

the collective idea of the middle ages
was a constant inquisition to root out 

queers and women who liked plants. Which,
given about 700 years of Europe’s Dark 

Ages, was only true SOME of the time. If Elrond or another central Elf in Middle 

Earth is queer, that may not technically
break cannon with Tolkein’s writing, since he 

never really wrote about anyone’s sexuality,
but it does facilitate that they do not 

die horrible deaths on account of their
sexuality. Because we know Elrond lives a long, 

long life, and then sails off into the west. And we can’t have that in 

fantasy land, now can we? Honestly I’m at the point where I’d rather 

have LESS, but more meaningful representation,
then to get… THIS… and then look like 

an asshole for complaining about it.
Again… This is indicative of a mindset 

where representation is a GIFT bestowed
upon us by the hegemony — rather than 

being either an ethical obligation,
good business sense, or affording a platform 

for people to make their own damn content. I’ve said it before: when your 

base-level ‘want’ out of the media is
to see someone who shares some of your life 

experiences, and when many consider that an
element of pushing a social agenda (‘being 

political’), it just wears you down a lot. Sure, I would like to see gay characters 

that push the envelope and challenge
conventional thought processes, but I 

also just like being able to point at
the television screen because 

something feels recognizable. I suppose you can say that I am preemptively 

exhausted from this discussion. Like a legal
case I am assembling a collection of evidence 

and arguments to justify our existence in any
piece of genre media. Especially because queerness 

has played a pivotal role in the development not
only of fantasy, but science fiction also. 

As it goes for women. And people of color. It’s really unfortunate that in order to justify 

our INCLUSION in this media, we, each of us,
need to be a scholar. Meanwhile, those of 

privilege are under no burden to justify
their DOMINANCE of these genres. ‘This 

is how things always have been’ is not
only a bad argument because it does 

not speak to the historic silencing
of people who have developed these 

genres, but it’s also just wrong. We’ve always been here in the real world. And yes,
even in myths. Greek mythology is gayer 

than the Falcon Studios back catalog. But society likes to pretend we’re no more real 

than fairies and elves. And if we do get mentioned
in media, we should be happy for the mention. 

Our inclusion might take people out of the story,
even if that story involves dragons and 

dark lords. Suspension of disbelief can
be stretched pretty far but it might snap at 

two boys kissing and living happily ever after. But we do deserve better representation than being
introduced in one episode 

and killed off in the next. And Tolkien probably never intended 

for us to show up in his books and
stories. Maybe not even maliciously. 

Again, writing in that day and age,
an old straight man working at Oxford probably 

never would have thought of us to begin with. When
it comes to bigotry… is there a difference 

between ignorance, negligence, or malice?
And how do we qualify which of these 

describes our forbearers’ problematic musings? Maybe we’ll show up in The Rings of Power 

someday. It’s got 5 seasons… But Maybe not. But if we don’t we can take solace in the anger 

of edge lords online getting butt hurt over strong
women and characters of color finding their 

way into a visual depiction of Middle Earth. And maybe The Rings of Power isn’t the best 

show ever. But if we can all agree on one thing… It's not as bad as The Hobbit movies.